Hey, this is the definitive guide to
copyrightiting for outbound. I've been
doing outbound sales basically my entire
professional life since I was 20 up
until now, so about a decade. I've also
generated over $15 million in outbound
sales for myself and my clients. And I
currently run a business that does $4
million per year in profit. So, I say
cold email in the title, but I want you
to know that what you're going to learn
here applies to all sorts of outbound
communic. Uh whether it's cold email,
whether it's Instagram, whether it's
LinkedIn DMs, whether it's even like
SMSs and stuff like that. So successful
outbound, in my humble opinion,
essentially boils down to can you
convince a stranger who has never talked
to you before and has no pre-established
sense of trust with you to buy
something. And that's very different
from most traditional sorts of
copyrightiting because most
copyrightiting involves some form of
opt-in where you know a person has
signed up to your newsletter or has
filled out a form and there's just some
sort of like actual established bases
for the conversation. A lot of people
don't get that with outbound which is
why I think so many people have issues.
What I'm going to do in this course is
dispel that for you completely and give
you guys some very simple quantifiable
road maps to to get to that level of
trust without raising any alarm bells or
making them think you're out to hurt
them or something selling a product. So
this course is going to give you the
8020 whether you have any pre-existing
experience with this stuff or you are
approaching it as a complete and utter
novice. Okay, no fluff. Here's what you
guys are going to learn. So I'm going to
start with the psychology of saying yes
to a message from a stranger. Now, this,
as I mentioned at the beginning, is
quite hard. And so, we're going to
spend, I don't know, probably 20, 30
minutes on this, just to get you guys to
the point where you understand how to
get people to actually want to like open
your message to begin with. After that,
we'll chat the three components of a
successful piece of outbound, whether
it's an email, uh, an SMS, LinkedIn DM,
or something else. Then, I'll cover my
personal copywriting framework, which
generated me and clients over $15
million. And I'm not going to say my
copyrightiting framework is like the
best on earth. I think there might
actually be be better ones, but it's
worked really well for me. and uh over
2,000 people that I teach how to do this
in inside of my community. Then I'll
chat offers, which is how do you
construct something that sounds good,
but it's not like too good to be true.
It's not so amazing, which I think a lot
of people typically put together and and
put on a platter for their customers or
prospects that like it sounds like BS.
Once I'm done with that, I'm going to
get to basically like the meat and
potatoes of this course, which is going
to be me roasting and then rewriting 10
pieces of outbound live in front of you.
So, I'm actually going to go through
like my email inboxes, my DMs, and stuff
like that, and show you guys how people
send outbound, the things that are wrong
with that send, and I'm actually going
to rewrite them for you in real time.
Then, I'll show you guys how to do all
of this on specific platforms. So, how
to optimize for email, how to optimize
for LinkedIn, how to optimize for X, how
to optimize for Instagram, and then
finally, how to optimize for iMessage.
Then we'll chat subject lines, uh,
follow-ups, iteration, which is very
important and not usually discussed
before doing a module all about AI
because obviously AI is the hot topic
right now and I want to show you guys
how you guys can leverage a lot of the
advancements there to write your
campaigns better. And then finally, at
the very end, okay, I'll talk advanced
outbound techniques, which I'm sort of
putting under this term grey hat, which
basically means because of differing
like outbound laws and different um,
areas around the world, you know, treat
everything I'm going to teach you in
that section with a grain of salt. Okay,
so you guys are going to learn
everything about outbound copyrightiting
as discussed. Uh if you do me a solid
like, subscribe, and then bookmark the
video. I have chapter headings and stuff
so you guys can jump around as
necessary. And let's get into the
course.
The first and most important thing I
want to talk about is that
copyrightiting is not magic. Everything
that I'm about to show you has actually
been documented in psychological
literature for the better part of
several hundred years. If you think
about it, human beings are like the OG
research subjects, you know, like we
were experimenting on our own minds and
our own behaviors since basically human
beings became a thing. So, what's really
cool is you can actually go out right
now and you can learn everything that
I'm about to show you. You can verify
that there have been, you know,
experiments and and and and tests that
have been done on different groups of
people um just by looking it up on a
resource like ARX. Now, I'm not saying
you have to read a million research
papers in order to get to the same level
of knowledge. I'm going to distill it
all for you. But I just want you guys to
know that like this is not stuff that,
you know, people just like pulled out of
their asses. This is like real
quantified research on how human beings
make decisions. And the reason I find
this so interesting is because I went to
school for behavioral neuroscience. So,
I graduated with a degree that basically
discusses and shows the neuroscientific
basis behind why human beings make
decisions, why we engage in specific
behaviors. And it is freaking insane
when you go down a little bit deeper
into it. Um, in hindsight, it's probably
one of the reasons why I'm so good at,
you know, cold email now. But yeah, you
can literally go out and you can you can
research this stuff. You can do whatever
the heck you want. I mean, whether
you're using Arxive or, you know, some
other resource, I want you guys to know
that everything I'm going to talk about
to you guys today has empirical basis in
science. And, you know, the best cold
email copyriters are basically like the
best psychologists. You know, so too
with the best doortodoor salespeople. So
to the the best LinkedIn DM campaigns,
all of this is just based on our
psychology. All right, so there's seven
principles behind why people say yes to
messages from strangers. A lot of this
was taken from Robert Chelini's book
called Influence. I don't think that
he's necessarily covered the whole
landscape, but he's definitely done a
pretty good job of organizing it all. So
I'm going to cover them in due turn. The
first is giving first. The second is
micro commitments. The third is social
proof. The fourth is authority. The
fifth is rapport. The sixth is scarcity.
And the seventh is a shared sense of
identity. And I think this is probably
the most important of all. The first
principle is the give first principle.
And this is why you know before you get
your bill at a restaurant, the waiter or
waitress will always bring you a a pile
of breathments. The reason why is
because when they provide you something
that you think is valuable, even if it's
not objectively valuable, but just like
valuable to you, it's something that you
assign very high level of value to. It
will create a sense of obligation
that lowers their resistance, disarms
their skepticism, and ultimately opens
the door to trust. Now, this has been
applied throughout history on broad
broad scales. I'm not going to get into
any particular example, but before you
uh raise up in arms and think that
learning this sort of thing makes you a
manipulative person or whatever, know
that you are constantly being
manipulated every single day. Every
company on planet Earth is employing
this right now to get more money out of
you, whether it's through outbound or
through some sort of inbound thing. Have
you guys ever been to to Costco or like
a big ger that offers samples? It's like
the reason why you do that is because
them giving you something at least
momentarily creates a sense of
obligation where you feel like you have
to talk to the sample person or maybe
you know ask some questions about the
product and they find that some small
percentage of the time 2 3% of the time
you'll actually go and you'll you'll buy
the thing. Okay. So the give first
principle is obviously very applicable
in our case to cold email because the
big hurdle is trust. And what you do is
you start by giving something really
small and then that gets you to some
foot in the door where you can start a
conversation. In the conversation you
give them something else which gets you
a foot in the door to where maybe you
could send a proposal or or you know
send them a product sample. That gets
your foot in the door to another point
where you essentially now have them in
some sort of work relationship. And then
you consistently just increase the level
of escalation until ultimately they have
uh you know some sort of like business
relationship with you that that you
wanted in the first place. Now I'll
cover some specific ways to do this. But
it really does just boil down um in our
cases since we're doing outbound to
offering some sort of help that seems
genuine. Uh you can automate a big chunk
of this. I'll show you guys how to do
that later on. But it might involve
giving them insights. Hey, you know, I
noticed XYZ is currently misconfigured
on XYZ's landing page. I know this is
wild. I think you're losing between 10
to $20,000 a month. Let me show you how
to fix this. You do that without asking
for anything in return. And even though
you didn't make the ask, the ask is
inferred. And people will assign value
to you, like positive value, without
assigning any of the negatives typically
involved in the framing of like a
business outreach transactional sense.
So very, very powerful. And I'm going to
show you a ton of different ways you can
do this, but I want you to know if you
are going to write a piece of outbound
communicate in insert current year or
beyond, make sure to include something
that you are giving them so at least
they have the sense that they're getting
some sort of value in exchange for their
attention or their time. Now, I covered
this briefly in the last principle, but
the second is micro commitments. Okay?
And that's that sense of increasing
escalation where you start with one
thing which is small, use that as your
foot in the door for another thing which
is bigger, use that your as a foot in
door for another thing, and so on and so
on and so forth. In any sort of outbound
situation, you can't just say, "Hey, do
you want to pay me $4,000 right now?"
Because, you know, the person on the
other end of the line's going to say,
"Well, who the hell are you? I've never
said yes to you before. I have no
pre-existing history, trust, any sort of
established sense of of security. Why
the hell would I do that?" But if you
say, "Hey, you know, um, I just actually
recorded you this custom thing and it
walks you through how to do all this
value stuff that I just gave you and it
shows you how to, you know, fix your
landing page. Would you just like, you
know, watch it for one minute and if
even after one minute you just don't
think it's valuable, whatever, never
message me again. Uh, you can tell me to
screw off and and so on and so forth.
It'll be fine." You know, if they watch
that minute and they like it, you know,
they're already essentially asenting to
engaging in some sort of transaction
with you. So from there, you know, you
can turn that into like a longer video
and from there you can turn that into an
actual phone call. From there, you can
turn that into a video call. From there,
you can turn that into, you know,
ultimately getting them to close. And
so, this this is all about just building
a sense of momentum where every small
agreement makes the next slightly larger
one feel good. Um, you know, there's a
big study that was done a while back. I
don't remember the specific one, but it
it was where, you know, they they found
that you could frame two asks and in the
first, um, they just did the ask and in
the second they basically made a bunch
of tiny little ones and just just were
like, hey, you know, is your name Bob?
And it's like, yes. It's like, "Hey, do
you live in whatever location?" It's
like, "Yes." They found that the more
times they could get a person to say yes
before the ask, the higher the
probability of them actually saying yes
to the ask. And so, like, the human
brain is very leaky. It's like, it's
like a video game, you know, like we we
need a patch severely because um there's
just all these little biases and little
hacks that people can take advantage of.
And this is a really big one. So, if you
want your cold emails or your cold DMs
or your campaigns in general to really
crush, make sure to understand micro
commitment as well. The third is social
proof. And this is pretty similar of a
principle to authority which we'll also
cover. But essentially human beings are
like heard consensus animals. You know
whatever your your beliefs or opinions
on the subject you know like we make
decisions first by looking at a bunch of
other people and seeing whether they're
making the same decision before we say
yes to anything. It's basically just
built into our DNA to like get a lay of
the land and see okay if I make this
decision am I the first one that's ever
making this decision or is there some
sort of precedent? And so with social
proof really what you do is you just
show or tell other people um that have
taken the sort of action that you are
asking them to take. You usually do this
really informally and like the best cold
outbound nowadays makes this like a it's
like a throwaway line. It's like barely
even talked about but it still provides
the the impression that a lot of people
are taking action. And um you know in a
situation like saying yes to a total
stranger obviously it's like max
uncertainty. human beings are going to
do social are going to rely on social
proof rather a lot more than like a
situation like buying a specific item at
a grocery store or something. So the way
you do this in practice through outbound
is use very specific numbers. Generally
speaking when you have concrete data so
these are names of people that you've
worked with results counts and so on and
so forth. Um it's a lot more powerful
than just saying like a lot of other
people have signed up for this. It's
like hey I actually just finished a
client project for an IT business in in
Tennessee as well. I mean they're
realistically like a 15-inute drive from
you. um I can hook you up with them if
if you want. You know, something like
that is far more persuasive than the
vague claim of like I just I make a lot
of money with this stuff. Likewise, hey,
we generated $112,482
last week for an XYZ business. You know,
if you have these sorts of case studies,
you got to really really use them. You
got to take full advantage of them. And
the way you do that is by being
specific. And then likely, ideally, you
want to match the reference group. So
like you know in social proof examples
and you can't actually do this in
practice most of the time because you
won't actually have like the exact case
study unless this is a product that
you've been selling for a while but it's
like you know let's say the offer that
you're running and I'll talk about
offers later but the offer that you're
running is for you know some sort of
like B2B SAS uh marketing and you know
you've worked with a lot of companies in
this before well if in your uh let's say
your your LinkedIn DM you mention that
you've helped another B2B SAS company
achieve XYZ result that's going to be
taken a lot more sincerely ly and then
powerfully than if you mention hey you
know I've helped uh some some freelance
dog walker achieve the same result it's
like your results should always be in
the context of the person that you are
considering talking to the company that
you know in my case B2B that I'm
considering helping and so the closer it
is to the reference group the more like
vin diagram overlap um the reference
group has you know this is like my
little reference and then this over here
is my uh prospect the more of that
overlap they have in either their
characteristics or their businesses or
their their ICPS ideal customer persona
attributes or or whatever the better the
social proof is going to be taken. So as
long as you can you know actually
implement on these three show others
taking action use specific numbers and
matching the reference group and I'll
give you guys a simple and
straightforward way to do that you guys
will crush. Next is the principle of
authority and this is where you
demonstrate hyper relevant expertise
with some form of you know credentialism
some form of like renowned
accomplishment some form of I don't know
like why do you think doctors always say
that like um Dr. blank with an MD at the
bottom of their freaking email
signatures because you just take them
more credibly because you know that
they've spent a lot of time doing the
thing. Um, it's also where you just
signal confidence in the way that you
write the email. So, you know, you're
not like hedging every 5 seconds. You're
not like, "Well, I believe maybe I could
help you." It's like, "Hey, I could
absolutely 100% help you. I'm very
confident in this because I just helped
XYZ do this before." That's combining
social proof and authority. So, I mean,
like, if you have any credibility that's
pre-established, then obviously you
should use it wherever possible. Um, you
should make sure that the credibility
that you're attempting to use does match
the ICP or ideal customer persona that
you're trying to talk to. You know, like
I find a lot of the time in, you know,
small to mid-size businesses, like I
used to go very uh blue collar. Blueco
collar people are like they're they're
my guys. So, I'd go door to door. I'd
knock on the freaking business door.
I'd, you know, I'd open it. I'd shake
hands with the receptionist or whatever.
I found, you know, if I talk about my
behavioral neuroscience experience to in
like some some business plaza in the
heart of Suriri, person would just kind
of raise their eyebrows, not really give
a [__] and let me go. But if I came in
and I said, "Hey, I'm a Google partner.
I'm part of Google's credential partner
service and I'm here to help you with
your ads or something of that nature."
Then people would be like, "Oh, you
know, I'm I I know Google Ads. We run
those." Really? You're with Google, like
the search engine that I use every day.
And I'll show you guys ways to get
authority really easily. But there's
actually tons of like really simple
partnership programs. There's tons of
like incentive uh uh uh you know,
programs that you can sign up to and
stuff like that that make that really
easy, even if you don't have any sort of
authority whatsoever in the niche that
you're trying to target. Phew. Okay.
It's pretty cold, so uh I just had to
put a hoodie on. Next up is the rapport
principle where you find shared context
between you and then the person that you
are attempting to pitch. Whatever shared
context, whether it's like ethnic shared
context, cultural shared context, career
shared context, the fact that you both
have freaking Yorkshire terriers, like
whatever it is, if you could find a way
to insert that in your outbound, it'll
be significantly uh it'll land
significantly better. Ideally, you want
to be super specific with whatever it
is. And then a big thing that I don't
think a lot of people do is you also
need to match the tone of the person
that you're talking to. This is like
explicit. You know, you just saying
like, "Hey, how's it going?" How the
hell do you spell explicit?
Hey, how's it going? You know, I know
you got a Yorkshire terrier. This over
here, though, is all implicit. Now, this
is where you mirror the communication
styles. You mirror the message lengths.
You mirror uh the punctuation. For
instance, like if you were pitching to
San Francisco VCs in like 2022 at like
the height of like what I would consider
to be the BS tech bubble, you would
absolutely use like lowercase in a lot
of the outbound messages that you would
send them because it would signal that
you're part of their their group, right?
You're establishing a sense of rapport.
Likewise, anything that allows you to uh
uh you know create this concept of like
alignment and and comfort with the
person. anything that allows you or
pushes the other person to think that I
don't know you're sitting across from
them at a bar or whatever you guys are
hanging out casually generally the more
rapport you can build and then the
easier it is to build an established
sense of trust. Next up is this idea of
scarcity. Now this is where you limit
the availability aka number of things
you have to give them. And you can pair
this with like the free giving uh uh you
know principle from earlier the give
first idea or you create some sort of
time pressure where you give them a
deadline in order to make the decision.
So you know in my case I'm pitching
outbound I send them a proposal for some
service valued at you know $15,000 but
that proposal expires at the end of the
week meaning they have to make the
decision before the end of the seven
days or I can't maintain their price
anymore. And then ultimately make the
constraint real. If it's like a fake
constraint, you know, a lot of people's
marketing BS detectors pick pick up on
that. So, real genuine ones like your
own personal capacity, your own
schedule. Um, you know, ones that where
you tend to admit something that also
ascribes some sort of fault to you like
the fact that you can only take on a
certain amount of work this week or this
month or you're actually juggling like a
few additional client projects. You want
to make sure that you have the time for
all of them together. These sorts of
things can do really well nowadays. This
is probably the least commonly used
principle out of all of the influence
ones that I'm talking about here.
Finally, similar to rapport, you have
the shared identity principle, which is
where you establish some sort of common
ground. People who are within your
industry share specific values to you,
whether it's like political values or as
mentioned previously, some sort of
cultural or ethnic value. People that
have gone through similar challenges or
hardships. you know, if you're pitching
uh, you know, a business owner that's
gone through the whole ringer and I
don't know, we all have these
inspirational business owner stories,
right? Where I was down on my luck and I
used to smoke crack and do all this
stuff and then you can express that you
used to live on the downtown east side
of Vancouver or whatever. Um, you know,
you you'll find significant inroads
there by doing so. Likewise with the
mirroring the tone, the tonality, the
the the length of the messages and stuff
like that, using in-group language like
lowercase messages and so on and so
forth and then highlighting some form of
shared struggle uh will significantly
improve the probability that whatever
your outreach is hits. Now like I'm
cognizant that a lot of these principles
have overlaps and they seem pretty
similar to each other. You don't have to
be, you know, like an academician or a
theoretician, I think that's a word,
here to understand that the idea is not
memorize every single one of these. It's
just recognize what they look like. You
know, if you can get in the habit of
recognizing these patterns, you can get
in the habit of actually learning how to
employ them yourself. And what the rest
of this course is going to be is
basically going to be sheer wrote
repetition of yourself applying these
principles and then watching me apply
them to, you know, take okay cold
outbound messages and then turn them
into fantastic cold outbound messages.
All right, enough of the theoretical
stuff. Let's actually talk about what
makes a great outbound campaign. And
this is going to apply and work
regardless of what it is that you're
doing, whether it's sending a DM or an
actual email. hell, even picking up the
phone and giving people a ring. The
first, which I find most people miss, is
establishing what the freaking goal of
your outbound campaign is in the first
place. Don't get me wrong, obviously the
goal of most B2B campaigns specifically
is going to revolve around money. It's
either going to be short-term money,
like closing a deal, or longer term
money, like building up some sort of
awareness or whatever, to ultimately get
more people into a funnel to close more
deals. But establishing exactly which of
these things that you are attempting to
optimize for and then assigning KPIs
which are um basically metrics called
key performance indicators is very very
important and we'll talk a little bit
about how to do so. The second is
building a frame. Okay. Now, a big thing
in cold email especially that's working
really well right now and it has to do
with one of the principles that we
talked about earlier which was um
establishing a shared consensus and sort
of like in-group feeling is this idea of
the frame of the interaction not being
corporate or not being like super
highbrow. Obviously, you should write in
a way that you know is is perceivably
straightforward, congruent and
professional, but there are a lot of
niches out there where your frame
actually does need to be very different
from what most people would consider to
be like a reasonable thing. And this is
going to depend a lot on like where you
are. It's going to depend a lot on like
the sorts of people you're pitching to.
It's also going to depend a lot on like
the cultural norms and maybe the
language norms of the language that
you're speaking in as well. So I'll chat
about how to do that. Finally, at the
end, we'll talk a little bit about
iteration. Now, realistically, what
makes a great outbound campaign is
having these two, having time, and then
applying some sort of like change based
off of the data. And I think people can
figure out one and two pretty
straightforwardly just with the concept
that I'm talking about. But that missing
third piece is iterating. Like when I
write a fantastic piece of copy, it's
usually not fantastic right away. You
know, at the time of writing, maybe it
gets a reply to like 3 and a half% or
whatever, which is like, you know, it's
okay, but it's not winning me any
freaking awards. The reality is the
entire game of outbound is like a data
scientist sort of game where like you
can start with a campaign, okay, get it
to 3.5% over here, make a couple of
changes based off that data, get it to
4.5%,
you know, 5%,
8%, and so on and so forth, and
basically gradually climb a hill or
evolve to the point where like you have
a a killer, amazing, fantastic campaign
that's 10%. It is very rare
to one shot a campaign, okay?
Which is where you just write it
fantastically and amazingly the first
time, send it, and then it just does
everything that you want it to.
Realistically, there's almost always a
funneling down process where you write
multiple versions of the copy. You test
that copy across, you know, your data
set. You get some results allowing for
time for the market to respond obviously
to your communicate. And then you
iterate based off of the findings. You
know, you have three campaigns. One has
a 10% reply rate, the other two have 2%
reply rates. What are you going to do?
Keep sending all three? No, you're going
to scratch the lowest performers, and
then you're going to build new variants
based off the high performer. In that
way, you're basically evolving your
email campaign over time, your your SMS
campaign over time, your DM campaign
over time, and then getting a lot uh
better results. Okay, so let's start
with principle one, which is defining
establishing clear goals. So there are a
lot of people out there that see
campaigns as sort of like a a broader
system that you know results in some
outbound metric that you want. I
personally see it as like an isolated
instance. I want every single email I
send or every single SMS I send to
function as a self-contained
campaign. Now, it's not that I can't add
more steps to the campaign, can't have a
second email, a follow-up SMS, and so on
and so forth, but I basically want if
you stripped away every other piece of
messages except for just that one, that
one should be able to do the whole job
on its own. And this differs from what a
lot of other people say. And I think if
you wanted to be truly optimal, you
would have a sense of both. You'd have a
sense of both, you know, like local
within one message and then also how it
all ties together broader. But I just
think for simplicity sake, it's so much
easier for me just to optimize the hell
out of a single message and then just
make sure it follows all the the four
copyrightiting points which I'm going to
talk about in the next section. So in
order to do that, the way that I always
think of my goals is what is the one
thing that I want them to do after
reading my message, after reading the
specific email that I crafted. Should I
uh book a call? Should I visit some sort
of page? Basically, there are variety of
different things that anybody can do
after reading a message, obviously. and
you just need to pick one of them. Okay?
So, I'm just going to give you some
examples over here. Um, the first thing
is they could reply. Obviously, that's
pretty easy, right? Reply yes. And if
they reply yes, you give them something
or, you know, what do you think about
this? And then if they tell you, then
obviously they're sort of like
escalating their commitment. The second
is they could watch something. Watching
something is typically more of an ask
because a lot of the time they're
clicking a link. They are opening some
asset. You know, it's like a file. it's
it's outside of the email um hierarchy
and so it exists as sort of like a a
bigger step but it's usually something
you can get just in the first piece of
communicy. The next is book some sort of
call. Now this is a lot tougher
obviously but for most people you that
sell services specifically or looking
for some sort of partnerships if they're
selling some some sort of ecom thing,
you know, retail and and so on and so
forth. This is like a big big ask, but
it's also a lot closer to ultimately
what it is that you're trying to do.
Finally, you can also get somebody just
to buy something through a cold email.
And this to me is like, you know,
obviously golden grail. If you could
just send out a bajillion emails with
like a freaking payment link and have
10% of those people respond, you're
doing something right. Uh but in
practice, this is something that like we
don't we don't typically do. And so
realistically, the campaigns that I
create, I'm either gunning for some sort
of reply, I'm gunning for some sort of
like asset watch or link click, or I'm
gunning for them to book a call where I
can, you know, set that and then have a
conversation with them and actually sell
them later on. Very rarely do we
actually go all the way to buy. And
we're certainly not putting like the
pricing or whatever in in an email for
the most part these days. So what that
means is you're going to be picking one
of these three. Okay? And there are some
other ones as well, but these are the
these are the main I think I think
buckets that most of my outbound tends
to go into. Now, if your goal is a
reply, you're going to write that in a
very different way than if your goal is
to book a call. And that's because, you
know, in cold email typically, um, any
sort of outbound that you send, you want
to be hyper specific with it. You want
to minimize the number of steps that the
person has to take in order to consume
what it is that you're asking them for.
So in our case, booking a call, for
instance, I don't want me to be like,
"Hey, what do you think about this?" And
they're like, "Yeah, that sounds pretty
cool." And then I'm like, "All right,
sweet. So do you want to book a call?"
And then they're like, "Yeah, I'd love
to book a call." And you're like, "All
right, sweet. So what time works for
you?" And they're like, "All right, 2
p.m." And I'm like, "I'm not available
at 2 p.m. Why don't we try 2:30?" And
they're like, "I can't do 2:30. I'm
walking my dog, so why don't we do 4
p.m.?" That's a lot of steps, right? And
what you'll find in any sort of outbound
campaign is the more steps you have
typically the lower the performances
because leads just leak. Prospects just
leave. They I don't know their grandmas
pass away or whatever. They're out for
two weeks. A million different things
could happen, but ultimately speaking
like you're not the priority in their
life. So you want to minimize the number
of steps involved. Give them everything
they need and actually in order to
actually consume the offer. Um and then
that'll significantly improve the
probability of success. So you know if
you're going for a reply, that's
obviously very vague in general. If
you're going for a book a call though,
typically you'll actually like provide
the times of the call that you want to
have that day. You'll say, "Hey, can I
give you a ring at 2:15? I have your
phone number right over here. It's this.
Is that cool?" You know, "Hey, uh, I
actually just generated or I just
created this asset for you. Um, you
know, do you want me to send it over?"
If you do, it'll be a one uh click link.
Uh, I don't have to have you download
anything or anything like that. You
literally just click it, then you can
watch the video. It's about 30 seconds.
How's that sound? Obviously, depending
on the specific goal that you have, the
writing is going to be quite different.
So you just have to figure all this
stuff out first. And then finally, if
you can't describe your goal in one
sentence, I don't personally think
you're ready to write your campaign. So
if my goal is to book calls for a B2B
outbound lead genen offer, okay, if
that's my goal, I'm good. But if I can't
actually like summarize what it is that
I'm trying to do in just a sentence,
odds are I haven't really thought deeply
enough yet about what it is that I'm
trying to do with cold email. and I'm
probably just doing cold email or cold
SMS or LinkedIns or whatever the hell
simply because I think it's like a trend
and it's kind of hot right now. Like
actually sit down and think a little bit
about what it is that you're trying to
do because the reality is you can sell
anything through outbound. I've sold
more or less anything through outbound.
Um you know whether it's like ecom
products literally you know selling some
sort of little widget or you know some
little keychain thing or some larger
product that costs more money you can do
that through Admount. Whether it's
selling like a high ticket service
that's 105 $20,000, you could do that
through outbound. Whether it's selling
like coaching or some sort of ongoing
thing, you could do that through
outbound. So, it's not about like what
it is that you're selling, although
obviously some are more easy than others
just given conventions and so on and so
forth. It's just about like do you know
why you're running this campaign in the
first place because if you don't know
why you're running a campaign, then
there's no point in even running the
campaign. The second major principle is
this frame idea. And nowadays with AI
being the number one topic on basically
every video social media platform and so
on and so forth, this is more important
than ever. But basically in my case,
this just boils down to writing like a
human. The frame of cold outbound is one
to one comms.
Remember earlier how I gave you that big
laundry list of principles and it was
things like establish a sense of
rapport, escalate through micro
commitments, instill a sense of
scarcity, and so on and so forth. Well,
the entire way that you get those
principles on paper is you just write as
if the person thinks you're writing just
to them. Obviously, most of the time
we're going to be using templates. We're
not actually handcrafting every
individual email. But it's very
important that the person on the other
end of the line thinks that you wrote
that email just for them. Literally is
like, "Hey, I was standing on the side
of the street calling an Uber and then I
saw some notification come up about your
business and I just I had to like
message you right now." Like that's the
vibe that you want people to have. And
so there are a couple of tests that you
can do for this. The first is the text
message test. If a friend saw you typing
this to them, would they think that it
was a personal message or in a mass
email? You want to optimize for
personal. And I literally mean like go
through your phone or go through your
email inbox and just see how are you
writing to people that you don't
actually have super crazy business
relationships with, but you do have very
strong trust relationships with. Okay.
What you want to do is typically mirror
that tone. and you'll adjust that
depending on some of the cultural
nuances and the languages like I talked
about, but in general, that is how you
do it. The second is you kill corporate
signals that give away that it's um some
sort of sales pitch. So, hope this finds
you well. No super illustrious signature
block with Dr. Sarif that does blah blah
blah. You know, in general, you don't
even want to say we. It's not like,
yeah, we help people do XYZ. It's like,
hey, I help people do XYZ. Hey, I help
you do XYZ. Hey, I'm reaching out to you
because I think I can help you
specifically with a specific thing that
I would only actually be able to put in
the email if I'd done a ton of research
on you. In general, you want it to be
short, casual, slightly imperfect, like
a real person having a conversation. And
with AI and stuff like that, it's gotten
so far that one of the optimal
strategies nowadays is literally to like
insert some issues with your email to
make the person be like, "Oh, wow. This
guy must have actually wrote this to me
on his phone." It's things like
including sent from my iPhone, send for
my Android, whatever at the bottom of
the email. It's taking advantage of
these little psychological quirks to
make people think that like, you know,
you sat down and did it. And then
obviously one person to one person, you
know, a big test is just if I read this
message back, if somebody sent this to
me, would I think that they were just
spamming me with a big wide-ranging
copyrighting campaign or would I think
that they actually wrote this thing for
me? So, it's it's just person to person.
This is not like, you know, P2 uh what's
the C2P,
right? Like it's it's P2P, okay? It's
player to player. It's person to person.
It's not company sending millions of
emails to faceless dollar signs to try
and convert them. Instead, you're like,
"Hey, I'm just one dude or I'm one chick
and I'm looking to help out another dude
or another chick, and here's how I'm
going to do it." Finally, you combine
all of this sort of casual frame,
congruence, trust building, and then
ultimately your your goal, which is get
them book a call or maybe get a reply or
whatever, with sort of like this data
scientist angle where you're iterating
all the time. And so essentially the way
that you know the scientific method
works is you will come up with some form
of hypothesis. So you'll say you know I
think this email would help me book
calls. Very simple hypothesis. You write
that email, you send it and then what
you do is you just you evaluate the
results. If the results aren't what you
want or if the results suggest that
maybe your email isn't as good or your
your your DM or something could could
use some work, what you do is you take
the data, the feedback, okay, and then
you apply it to improve the quality of
the email. So I mean it's very very
scientific method. Okay. But in general,
it's about establishing some sort of
campaign. Okay. It's getting some sort
of feedback, which I'm just going to
call Y. And then it's ultimately making
some changes. And then it's just looping
this back on its tail over and over and
over and over and over again until your
thing gets better and better and better.
So realistically, you know, if we're
sending emails, I'm not just going to
send one to one person. I'm going to
treat this like a science experiment.
I'm going to try and control for all my
variables. So, I'm going to send 500 to
a,000 to like get enough statistical uh
you know backing behind any conclusion
that I draw that I'm a lot more
confident in doing so. I'm going to
measure specific KPIs like reply rate.
Okay. I'm going to measure uh uh open
rate if that's visible. I'm going to
mention I'm going to measure booked call
rate. I'm going to measure proposal sent
rate. I'm going to measure product
purchase rate. I'm basically going to
build like a big funnel, which you know
is a form of conversion rate
optimization with all of my metrics. So,
I'm going to have opens. I'm going to
have replies. I'm going to have like
optins, which is where they actually
like do the next step. I'm going to
have, I don't know, calls. I'm going to
have proposals if I'm selling some sort
of service. I'm actually going to have
closed. And then, you know what I'd even
have here is I'd even have lifetime
value um of the people that I close that
I could tie how long people work with me
and how much total money I make to
whatever the specific campaign is that I
sent. I'm going to show you guys how to
do all this stuff as we proceed.
Although I want you to know that this is
typically pretty platform dependent. If
you're sending, you know, LinkedIn DMs,
your uh data will be a little bit
different than if you're sending cold
emails, and that's going to be a little
bit different than if you're if you're
doing outbound phone calls. In general,
you're going to want to kill whatever
losers you are running really fast. So,
after you've sent enough or called
enough or whatever the heck, just cut
the bottom performers immediately, write
new variants based off the top
performers, and then test again. And
ideally, you just want to go data over
your gut feeling. Like, our intuitions
are powerful and stuff like that, but I
can't tell you how many times I've
written a a campaign and then thought,
"There's no way this would ever work."
and then it gets like a 15% reply rate
and generates hundreds of thousands of
dollars. That occurs shockingly often
which makes me realize that my
intuitions are nowhere near as valuable
as just data in general. You want to get
all of your results not from your own
head but from the actual market because
the market is the truest uh proxy for
what reality really is for us. You know,
since we're looking to sell things and
obviously make money, customers are the
only people that that really matter. in
a variant. This is where people get this
idea of like the customer is always
right because they're like, "Well, the
customer is always right because the
customer pays me, right? So, I should
just listen to the customer." But I also
want you to take that with a grain of
salt because there's a difference
between a stated preference, which is
where a customer explicitly tells you
something like, "Hey, I don't like that
you ask me this, and a revealed
preference, which is really what's going
on inside the customer's head." What
you'll find as well is that stated and
revealed preferences are kind of
different from each other. So rather
than the customer always being right,
it's more so just like look at the
behavior of the customer and optimize
for that.
All right, so just keeping track of
time, we're done the psychology saying
yes to a message from a stranger. We are
now on three components of a successful
piece of outbound. Um, and next up it's
time to talk about my copyrightiting
frameworks. This is the same thing as
gener $15 million. What this is is this
is essentially us taking these these
principles and then these components and
then just like sticking them all
together into a repeatable formula. So
this is a formula, a system, a product,
a rule book, a road map, just something
that you can consistently come back on
anytime you're writing good copy. And so
I have the four steps right over here.
I'll cover them all in due time. And
then I also have a couple of um
templates that basically we're going to
build using this formula. Okay. All
right. So without further ado, the
formula is based off of four steps. The
first is personalization.
The second is who am I? So it's defining
who you are. The third is your offer.
And then the fourth is your CTA. And for
those of you guys that don't know, that
just stands for call to action, which is
a marketing term where basically you get
somebody to do something uh ask for a
specific action. Okay. So let's cover
all three of these or all four of these,
sorry. uh in turn. So the very first
thing you have to do with any cold email
is you have to personalize it. And
because the highest ROI place in an
entire cold email is always the very
beginning of the email. Why? Because the
very beginning of the email is the only
place you can ensure that all readers of
the email will actually read. Email drop
off is nuts. Like if the first word is
over here at 100% of people, then the
fifth word is like down here at 50% of
people. Like people drop off. they don't
actually read much further than a few
words unless you hook their interest.
So, because it's the highest ROI place
in the whole email, the best thing you
can do is just hook their attention
using some sort of extraordinarily
personalized seeming line. Okay? And so,
the personalization is composed of a
couple things. Usually, it's a greeting.
So, it's like, "Hey, how's it going?"
Then it's an observation or a thing in
common. Okay? If you think about it,
this sort of handles the rapport. The
thing in common is supposed to handle
both rapport and then like signaling
that you're part of their ingroup. And
then you use this as an opportunity to
segue into your pitch. And the whole
idea is this
cannot signal
that you are selling something. The
entire point is essentially, and I know
this sounds bad, but you are sneakily
and cleverly evading their sales radar.
So, the idea is you have to start every
email with something that makes a reader
think, "Wow, this person over here
actually looked at my stuff. They read
my blog post. Maybe they've watched my
4-hour Claude code master class," which
you guys should definitely watch. You
haven't. Maybe they've read my book.
Maybe they've followed me on LinkedIn
and so on and so on and so forth. The
reality of this is though is that so
many people take this principle and go
way too far when what you should be
doing is you should be keeping it short
and informal because uh personalizations
that are short and informal tend to be
personalizations that are real. The
longer it is, the less the person will
think you actually sent it to them. So
my personal rule of thumb is it's two
sentences max. One sentence is ideal.
And the most important thing is just
like would a real person send what I'm
sending? If the answer is yes,
fantastic. You have a strong opener. But
if you end up generating milk toast LLM,
large language model slop like, "Hey
Stacy, love how passionate you are about
process optimization and aligning
corporations with diversity outcomes at
BeaverC." Then you're shooting yourself
in the foot. The number one giveaway of
like a shitty or like an AI cold email
nowadays, at least um as of the time of
this recording, is like people will use
AI to write their whole email and then
they'll always say something so stupid
at the beginning, something that no
human being would actually pick up on or
note. Like, you know, I I don't care how
passionate you are about process
optimization and aligning corporations
with the diversity outcomes at Beaver
Corp. Like, I don't, you know, like and
and you don't care that I care about
that. What you care about is, you know,
hey Stacy, saw you went to uh, you know,
uh, UCLA. That's wild. You know, my
cousin went down there. That at least
makes you stop and go like, huh, like,
who who is this person again? And that
is exactly what you want. Basically, the
entire point of personalization is for
the person you're sending to to go,
wait, who is that? Do I know this
person? And then that sneaky little
clever hack that buys you like a good 30
seconds of them reading through the rest
of your email. And once you have like,
you know, the the foot in the door once
they're actually reading your email,
then through escalation of commitment
and then through micro asks and other
principles that we've already talked
about psychologically, you can actually
get a stranger who's never talked to you
before, who's not even talking to you in
real life, but just reading your text on
a screen to do something for you. So, a
big chunk of success with
personalization, the very first chunk of
an email, okay, is through what's called
cold reading. Now, if you've never done
uh any sort of like cold reading or if
you've never heard about this before,
what cold reading is is it's a set of
psychological techniques used to
convince someone that you know them
intimately, even if you've never met
them before. If you guys have ever seen
like psychic TV shows or mentalists, uh
it was a lovely series or or like some
clairvoyant stuff. Basically, the the
the whole way that that works, assuming
that, you know, the supernatural stuff
isn't actually real, cuz who knows,
maybe it is and I'm just wrong here. um
is is they're extraordinarily
observative, but then what they do with
their observation skills is they make in
general statements that actually apply
to like 80% of the population that a
human being upon first read or first
glance would not know applies to 80% of
the population. So, um I don't know like
a common thing that people will say, you
know, if you if you come on one of those
psychic talk shows or something and
somebody's like trying to cold read you
is, you know, hey, you're you're usually
quiet, but um I've noticed that you can
be really talkative when you're
comfortable. You know, you you say that
to, I don't know, some young mom who
isn't really paying attention, and
they're going to think like, "Yeah,
that's so right. You know, I am usually
quiet, but at the same time, you know,
when I when I get comfortable, I am
talkative. Like, hm, this person knows
me." Like, this is obviously kind of
[__] right? Like, no duh. Every
human being on freaking planet Earth is
probably quiet initially and then grows
more comfortable and and and thus more
talkative. But most people for whatever
reason just lack the ability to like
realize that they are not that they are
sorry a representative sample of like
the whole population cuz we all think
that we're special, right? So I'm going
to give you guys a quick example here
and um it's an example that I've really
tried to formulate for my for myself. A
good example of this is this right over
here is going to be our email template
that we're going to use for for this
section of the course. And this right
over here is the personalization. And so
what I have here is, "Hey Nick, love
your channel, man. Very no BS and has
helped me get started in management
consulting. Think I can help you with
something and maybe return a bit of the
favor you've unwittingly done me." This
is not like AI generated at all. This is
100% I just I just wrote this. And you
know what the reality is? You could send
this to any YouTuber. Any YouTuber,
anybody that makes any sort of
businessto business content that's a
male anyway with men and you could say,
"Hey Sam, love your channel, man. It's
very no BS and helped me get started in
management consulting. Why? Because
management consulting is so general that
any business model would apply to it.
Whether it's like a person making
YouTube videos about SAS, a person
making YouTube videos about, you know,
AI automation like me, a person making
YouTube videos about like cold email
copyrightiting, whatever. And then
everybody over here that has like love
your channel, it's very no BS. Everybody
thinks their channel is very no BS. It's
like I'm not going to assume that a
bunch of other channels are no no BS
because the whole reason why my channel
performs so well is because it's no BS
straight to the point. So this is what
we call cold reading. And so that's sort
of option number one. And that's
actually the option that I recommend
people like go with. Like you should
actually just cold read. You don't even
need to AI personalize stuff to be
honest. Although it obviously helps. The
next step up with personalization though
is you take these overly general vague
statements and what you do is you
combine them with artificial
intelligence to show you how to do later
on in the course where basically AI
scrapes some data source about the
person like for instance where they went
to college or something and then you
just weave it into a template that's
pretty well cold read. So I don't know
something about UCLA like yo saw you
went to UCLA wild stuff. Uh right like
were you in whatever famous teacher's
third year. The person's going to
recognize the famous teacher. They're
not going to recognize the fact that
like you know that it's a famous teacher
because they're really big or you could
just scrape all their information
online. They're gonna be like, "Oh, this
person's probably familiar with UCLA."
Meanwhile, what you're actually doing is
you're just getting your foot in the
door. People respond to you. Now you
have like an escalation of commitment
through cold email. Now you can
actually, I don't know, pitch them
whatever the hell you want. Or, you
know, even if that doesn't happen, what
you've done is you bought a few seconds
of attention. Okay, so that's step one.
It's personalization. And to be clear,
what we got from that was, um, hey Nick,
love your channel, man. It's very no BS.
Has helped me get started in management
consulting. I think I can help you with
something. Maybe return a bit of the
favor you've unwittingly done with me.
Oh, by the way, one more thing. You see
this management consulting bit? This
over here is called voluntary disclosure
of information. And voluntary disclosure
of information is a common tactic used
to build rapport through things like
cold email and also through the FBI. um
if you voluntarily disclose some bit of
information about yourself, you're some
spy or something like that person on the
other end of the line, they will trust
you more because they will know that you
just, you know, gave them some
information. So, when you say like,
"Hey, this helped me get my start in
management consulting." Obviously, you
know, it's it's [__] I didn't help
them get their start in management
consulting. Hopefully, that's clear. Um
but when you make some sort of statement
like that that's vague or general, but
then is like still a giveaway of
personal info, the person on the other
end of the lines can be, "Oh, wow.
Really? That's wild?" You know, and if
you don't feel comfortable saying, "Help
me get started in management
consulting." You can also say, you know,
very no BS videos like this, help me get
started in management consulting or
something. And then you have both uh you
know, you're you're aligned on the uh on
that side and then you're also aligned
on the whole voluntary disclosure um
side as well. People have done really
wild stuff with that literally like I
don't know telling you about their cat
or something in an email. And then
people are like, "Well, aren't isn't the
whole point of cold email that it has to
be really short and really punchy?" So
how does that work? When you know the
rules, you can break them. But you know,
at this point you're still learning the
rules. So be careful with all that.
Okay. Anyway, part one's personalization
and it cannot signal that you are
selling something.
On to part number two, which is the who
am I statement. Okay. So basically the
sequence of events when somebody reads a
cold email is when they start reading
the very first thing they're thinking of
is oh is this person a scammer and or a
spammer? And so if you just like
personalize the hell out of your email,
they will immediately know you're not a
scammer or a spammer. Why? Because
scammers and spammers don't actually do
any sort of personalization. They just
send five quadrillion emails a day to
every human being on Earth with a social
insurance number. Now, because you say,
"Hey, Stacy, you know, uh, saw you went
to UCLA or whatever." You know, they're
at least going to know that you're not
like a scammer or a spammer. Um, so long
as your your personalization is good and
you have some sort of cold reading. Now,
the next thing they're going to think of
once you've solved that, okay, cuz keep
in mind their uh defenses are really
high initially. A lot of people are
selling absolute [__] The next thing
they're going to think about is, okay,
so this person isn't a scammer, then who
are they and why should I give a [__]
And so that's what this next step
solves. So this is where you combine
some sort of social proof and some sort
of brief statement to just quell the
concern at the back of their mind that
just tells them who you are and why it
matters. Okay? So like literally like
this question here is, "Hey, is this
person here to scam me?" No. Okay. So
next question is, "Who the hell are they
and why does it matter?" And it's like,
okay, so I'm this guy and this is why it
matters because I've made all this
money. So my recommendation here is just
like you did with the personalization,
keep it to one or two sentences because
we're just we're just answering rapid
fire immediate questions that human
beings pattern match. You can't tell
I've sent a lot of emails. The social
proof is your introduction. The best way
to do this, and this is what allows you
to take advantage of another one of
those psychological principles in my
experience, is say something like, "I
currently work with insert client." And
you can either name the client by name
or you could say it's an industry client
in location to help them do thing. And
thing is similar to what they've done.
We've done specific number, you know,
$4,892
in the last two days through uh B2B
outbound. So the whole idea here, okay,
is not only are you knocking out social
proof because you are showing people why
you matter, okay, you're also aligning
yourself with their inroup by saying,
"Hey, I actually currently work with
whatever the company is and it's similar
to the company of the person that you're
reaching out to, right? So when you say
weave, now you're implying that you're
in their inroup and you have social
proof within their inroup, which is
obviously maximally congruent, maximally
aligned, and then it actually seems
pretty impressive, right? And then
you're also showing off a little bit,
right? And so this is how you get all of
the above in like as few characters as
possible. Um, you know, you you identify
yourself. You make it clear like, hey,
you know, I do X, Y, and Z. You know,
you make it clear why that matters. You
make it clear that you are on their
level. Now, in terms of the email
template, okay, this first section here
was, "Hey, Nick, love your channel.
Barry, no BS. Help me get started
management consulting. I think I can
help you with something and maybe return
a bit of the favor and would done me."
This next section here is where you
flex. I currently work with a 10 mil
subtuber, Mr. X, to help him build
landing pages. We have made 3 mil in the
last month alone. What is this doing?
Just as I mentioned earlier, 10 mil
subtuber. It implies that well actually
it explicitly states that I work with
somebody important. Therefore, I am
borrowing their credibility. I am
important as well. That's my social
proof. And then it's also like, hey,
this is a YouTuber, right? So, I work
with a YouTuber. We have made three mill
last month alone. It's like, okay, so
I'm like you. you know, I understand the
game. I'm a YouTuber. We are part of
something. Okay. And next up, we have
the offer. Now, this is typically where
you have an observation and then what I
call almost like a too good to be true
offer. And I should really just space
this out a little bit more so I could
see it better. Um, this is where you
make them an offer so good that saying
no feels pretty irrational. The whole
idea is you want to point out something
specific about their situation, some
observation, some pain point that they
have, some need. And keep in mind here
that this is very cold readable as well.
You know, if I say, I think you're
leaking money right now with your
landing page. Like basically every
business on earth is going to have a
landing page, right? And a lot of
businesses on earth are going to think
their landing page isn't very good. So
when you say, "Hey, you know, I work
with Mr. Beast. I help them make landing
pages. Mr. X, I help them make landing
pages and we've generated three million
last month alone." Know there's not a
lot of feel, but I think you're leaking
money with your with your current
funnel. um just the way you've set it up
and like the various uh uh I don't know
the funnel mapping and whatever um
doesn't seem really aligned with what I
would have considered your content to
be. Okay, so that's your observation and
then your too good to be true offer is
where you basically present um something
that is very formulaic and I'll show you
that in a second that has built-in risk
reversal. So the idea is the prospect
should risk nothing. All the risk should
be on you the business owner. A good
template for the offer, okay, is I will
do X thing in Y. That's not how you
spell a Y. Y time or Z risk mitigation.
So I will generate you $10,000. Okay.
In 60 days or I'll keep working for free
until I do. Perfect combination of an
offer. Alternatively, I will get you 20
calls, okay, in 90 days or I'll give you
all of your money back. Basically, you
know, again, it's free. I will do X
amazing thing for you in Y amazing short
amount of time, or I'll send you a $500
gift card to your favorite steak place.
Just let me know where that is. Whatever
it is, the whole idea, and I'm going to
go way more into depth on this later, is
that it just needs to sound really good,
really clean, be super quantified, be
hyper specific. You're not going to
include a range here. I'll make you
between 10 to 20k. It's like, no, I'll
make you 20k in 2 or 3 months in 90 days
or I'm going to do an exact sequence of
steps that is very telegraphed that you
probably have seen before and
understand. And you want them to be
like, well, the only situation in which
any human being would ever say that to
me is if they're very confident that
they are good at what they do. So
basically the first section here, okay,
personalization, that just gets them to
say you're not a spammer. The second
step here, which is identity. Who am I
and why do we give a [__] That tells
them who you are and why they should
give a [__] this third section, offer,
okay, is now, okay, so now that you're
somebody and I kind of do give a [__]
what can you do for me? And so in this
case, I'm saying, I went through your
landing page at Maker School and
frankly, you are bleeding money, my
friend. I'm so confident that even a
couple minor changes here could fix this
that I bet I could generate at least
100K for you in the next 60 days. I do
this 100% upfront, no strings, would
take 5 minutes of your time, and only if
I hit 100K would I ask you for a small
cap, maybe 15 to 20%.
Okay, so here you're probably like,
"Well, dude, like am I doing work for
free?" I mean, keep in mind that if you
want to pitch somebody you've never
talked to before in your entire life on
like a high ticket deal, you really have
to put your money where your mouth is.
I'm not saying you have to work for
free. Not at all. But you do need to
understand this. the lengths of
skepticism a person will have and the
number of factors that are against you
getting on a phone call with them or
some sort of video call with them where
you can actually explain the offer are
so much higher and harder than anything
you could have even hoped to imagine if
you haven't done this before. That the
only way to cut through the noise, the
constant torrent of [__] is to have
some amazing offer that sounds kind of
almost too good to be true that allows
you to get on the call and then explain,
"Okay, this isn't actually too good to
be true. is actually pretty grounded in
science and and facts. And I've actually
done this sort of thing before. And
here's how we've done it. Okay. So, no,
you're not working for free, but you do
have to offer a guarantee. That is just
how it works in any sort of cold ad
nowadays. Uh if I had known what I just
told you guys right now back in my door
to door days, I probably would have made
over a million dollars. Uh not just, you
know, $15, $200,000.
So, uh here's more or less why this
matters. Okay. It's because the
conversion rate which is expressed as a
percentage is basically directly
proportional to the perceived ROI
that you can deliver times how much
trust they have that you can actually
deliver the return on investment. Okay,
divided by the friction involved in
getting started. Okay. And this last
point is a little bit more call to
actiony based but I'll run you through
it regardless. Now, if I'm offering, you
know, $10,000 in 60 days and it's a
business that makes $10,000, this return
on investment is going to seem really
big to them. Now, if I do so in a really
trustworthy way and I give them a bunch
of social proof with actual people's
names and stuff like that, you know, the
trust at least up upfront on the offer
is going to be relatively high. And if I
tell them that you don't have to do a
single thing, I'll take care of it all
for you. It'll just take 15 minutes of
your time on a call, then the friction
is going to be really low. And do you
know what happens mathematically when
the numerator is high, the other
numerator is high, and the denominator
is really low. Well, the number that you
end up with is really high, right? The
conversion rate's going to be high. Um,
you know, if any one of these was
reversed, so if the return on investment
was shitty, the trust was shitty, or the
friction was really high, then I would
directly um, you know, slow down my
conversion rate by whatever factor uh,
those things are. Am I actually doing
like math every time I create one of
these things? No, obviously not. This is
just a way to think about it. Now,
another way to think about this is
because a lot of people at this point
are like, "Well, I don't want to do work
for free and stuff like that." Is your
offers are correlated to the incomes and
the statuses of the businesses that
you're working with. What I mean by that
is, you know, my business does over
$300,000 in profit per month. Okay? That
means that in 60 days, somebody's
pitching me. In 60 days, I would have
done somewhere between 600 to maybe
$700,000 in profit. Okay? When somebody
says generate at least 100k for you,
what they're what they mean is number
one, it's not profit, okay? It's
revenue. All they have to do is just
generate some form of top of funnel,
which is much easier than generating
actual profit. So that's number one.
Number two, if my business would have
made 6 or $700,000 in a time period, and
the person's coming in offering to fix
or improve my revenue by 100,000, all
they need to do is they just need to
improve the effectiveness of my business
by 16%. Right? And if I genuinely have
something that is like crazy cracked,
okay, like I'm a person that's pitching
now and I have some crazy cracked system
and I'm actually very confident in my
offer. Um, you know, I'm sure I could
increase your revenue by 16% or
something like that if I if I've truly
found a hack in the market and that's
why I'm going going to market with this
offer. So, for instance, like cold
email, like cold email to me is broken
and it's broken because I'm quite good
at it obviously, but it's it's broken in
general because of the distribution and
the leverage. if you play your cards
right. Anybody can get really good at
this stuff really quickly, assuming that
they understand some of the principles
that I'm talking about here. So, when I
go to people and I make outrageous
sounding claims like, "I will make you
$10,000 in the next 60 days," or, "I
will generate you 20 booked meetings in
the next 60 days." Meanwhile, they've
they've booked one meeting in the last
60 days, so I'm 20xing their funnel.
People look at me and they're like,
"What the hell? That's crazy." But you
understand that like you're doing this
in the context of the the industry that
you're working with. If I'm pitching
YouTubers that make5 to$10 million a
year and then I make an offer for them
saying like, "Hey, I'll help you make
$100,000 in additional in the next 60
days and they take me up on that, what's
that really?" I mean, if I'm making 100k
and then they make five, you know, this
is like 100k and that's technically 5
million, right? Expressed as a
percentage, this is 150th and then 150th
is really 2%. So, what do I have to do
over that time period? I just have to
increase the effectiveness of their
business by 2%. Let me tell you, I mean,
as a as a freaking hustler, as somebody
that's like been there, done that, who's
who's grinded it out, who has that old
school gumption, I will find a way to
improve the the revenue of this business
or the effectiveness of the business or
whatever the hell by 2%. And that's even
if I didn't have a cracked ass system, I
obviously do. Okay, so I don't actually
recommend having offers be like
financially based. I'm going to talk a
lot more about that later, but I just
wanted to show you guys here what like a
real strong guarantee would look like
where somebody's like, "Well, dude, why
wouldn't I take the sub 100K?" And then
like you're pitching to a bunch of
freaking millionaires anyway because
obviously you pick your niches, right?
Not like a total [__] Um, you know,
like even if you don't get them the
result, so let's say I make $99,000 for
my customer instead of $100,000. You
know, some of them are going to be dicks
and they're going to look at that and be
like, "Yeah, I mean like you missed it
by 1K, so I want all my money back." So
then you send them their $10,000 back or
whatever. You know, some of them will,
of course, but a lot of them will be
like, "Are you freaking kidding me? You
just made me $99,000,
dude. I want I want whatever you're
smoking, man. I'm like, "Course, get the
hell in my business. Let's do
something." Now, in my case, it's
usually marketing based, right? Because
that's what I do. But, um, in your case,
could be anything. It could be
implementation, could be newsletters, I
don't know. Anyway, I'm getting off
topic here. Um, part four is a call to
action, which is where you make a
specific ask. So, no vague stuff like,
"Would you be interested?" or "Let me
know your thoughts." Unless you've
really like planned this out and you've
thought deeply about it. Um, what you
really want is you want a specific ask
with a specific time because most of you
guys are going to want to do calls. So,
would you would be open to a 15-minute
chat? If so, I can give you a ring at
3:30 p.m. today or before 12:00 p.m.
tomorrow. That way, there's just one
step between yes and booked. Think about
like the loop here. Okay, if I have
this, you know, let me use this built-in
thing. That's way easier. So, I send
person says yes. Okay, I book. That's
literally like two steps after the
sending. They just say yes. and then
immediately after it's like, "Okay, I
booked them in my calendar." Now,
contrast that with the way that most
people do this. What they'll do is
they'll send and then instead of saying,
"Hey, can I book at whatever time or
whatever?" They'll just say like, "Hey,
like let me know thoughts." You say,
"Cool." Then it's like you're like, "Oh,
okay. Well, then can we jump on a call?"
And they're like, "Sure." And then
you're like, "Okay, what time?" And then
they're like, "3 p.m.
Thursday." And then you're like, "Oh
[__] I can't actually make that cuz I'm
picking up my son from soccer practice
or something." First of all, notice how
many steps are involved every time that
you have a step after the reply.
Obviously, what's happening is you are
leaking. And so, we're Let me just draw
it from here. That's a little easier.
You're actually leaking like 5% on the
conversion right here. For whatever
reason, people just aren't going to get
back to you because, as mentioned in um
a previous part of this video, people
have lives and they have a bunch of
other [__] going on, right? And so,
basically, every single time you have a
back and forth, you're leaking like some
percentage of the funnel. And um if
you're like an average person and you
you know an average person trying cold
email who bangs their head against the
wall and like oh my god this doesn't
work. My copyrightiting sucks. Copy is
so hard. I'm just going to AI do it all
for me. Oh my god that sucks too.
Whatever. Like that's that's like 25%
right? 25% of your whole lead flow aka
25% of your revenue
just disappeared. So if you want to make
25% more revenue, keeping in mind entire
industries are built on 25%. Just make a
specific ask. I can give you a ring at
3:30 p.m. today or before 12:00 p.m.
tomorrow. And keep in mind as well that
like a lot of cold email platforms, a
lot of uh you know templating platforms,
whether it's SMS linked or whatever, um
you know, they actually allow you to
like insert dynamic variables, usually
using liquid syntax, which is quite
valuable. All right, so what is the CTA
here? Well, it's this section right over
here. Would you be open to a 15-minute
call if so 3:30 p.m. tomorrow? And then
I always I personally like signing off
with something. So this is Peter to
Nick. This is what that looks like.
Okay. All right. So close your eyes. Can
you recite those four steps back to me?
Pause the damn video and give it a go.
In case you guys don't remember, it was
personalization.
It was who am I and why the hell does it
matter? It was offer. And then it was
call to action. If you just say that
back to yourselves five, 10 times, you
do the same thing again tomorrow, you'll
remember this formula for the rest of
your life. This is very worth doing
because, as mentioned, this has made me
and my clients over $15 million. I'm
sure it's made a lot of other people
that I don't even know about who watch
my videos and watch my content or maybe
the clients of my clients or whatever.
Way more than that. Just try and nail
this one because it's very
straightforward. So, what I want to do
now is I want to show you the exact same
thing written with even more cold
reading. Um, that's pitching a different
sort of product. Okay. Obviously, the
previous campaign was like YouTube
optimization through landing page stuff.
This one's going to be a little bit
different. Okay. because this is an
actual email that I um I rewrote for
somebody inside of Maker School, which
is my community where I I teach people
copyrightiting and stuff like that. And
uh you know, they asked, "Hey, you know,
can you fix my email?" And then I took a
look at it. I was like, "My god, this is
like trash. So, I really have to help
this fellow." And his name is Mikuel, I
think. Um hopefully I'm not butchering
his name. Really cool guy. And I ended
up just like doing a video on it. So, I
figured I'd show it to you guys as well.
The copy goes, "Hi, Nick. Love the
channel, man. The anti-hype is very
refreshing. Honestly, I wanted to run
something by you." So in our magic hat,
if I pull out one of the four steps,
which one is this going to be?
Obviously, this is going to be
personalization, right?
So what am I doing here? Just breaking
this down psychologically. Again, I'm
making like a really cold ready
statement.
And it's, "Hey, Nick, love the channel,
man." I'm using some sort of like
qualifier to make it clear that I'm not
like some formal, you know, VC reaching
out to whatever. Like I'm I'm I'm I'm a
friend, you know? I'm like on your
level. Most people will use terminology
like this, most men anyway. Um, and so
doing this is sort of a way of me
signaling that I'm in group. The
anti-hype is very refreshing. A lot of
people are big on anti-hype. They're
like, "Well, my videos are anti-hype.
Everybody else's videos are all hype
[__] Mine are anti-hype." You send
this to somebody, you'll do a pretty
good job.
Um, the next one is, I wanted to run
something by you. And this is sort of
like a bridge term. And I just use some
bridge term like that so my my email
doesn't seem disjointed. But you don't
even need that. You could just like cut
it out. Okay. So, next up, what you have
is you have like the who am I and why do
you give a [__] So, who am I? Well, I
help retail businesses scale
acquisition. I just partnered with
Venshin. It's a retail company around
the same size as you and generate 85k
rev in 12 weeks. Venshin is a retail
company around the same size as you.
What am I getting from this? I'm getting
inroup.
We generated 85k rev in 12 weeks. I I
missed a Wii here. A wei here would have
done even better. But anyway, what else
are we doing? We're signaling that like
we know what the hell um is up with, you
know, retail business acquisition. 85k
revenue in 12 weeks. You know, it's not
like the craziest amount of money on
planet Earth, but assuming that you're
reaching out to small to mid-size
businesses that make like, you know, a
couple million dollars a year, nobody's
going to say no to another like 2530K a
month, right? That's what we're that's
what we're offering here. Okay. So, next
what we have is we actually have a
really straightforward pitch. And so,
this is actually kind of like an
inversion of the call to action um offer
sequence, but this is really an offer.
So we're doing is could I do this for
you too? TLDDR. We're using again casual
language. I'd fill your calendar with
high intent sales calls from prospects
who are generally interested in your
offer. I do with a scalable cold
outreach system I build myself.
And then
this offer is kind of like this and this
over here. Okay. It's going to be our
CTA. Um you know I do it with a scalable
cold outreach system I built myself. I
believe in this so strongly I wouldn't
charge a scent unless it generated more
than 10k in our first month together. My
goal is to make this a no-brainer. I
really think I can benefit company one
and offer some value up front. What am I
doing? I'm teasing 85k in 12 weeks,
which if you just do the math here, like
that's three months, right? So that's
about $30,000 a month. 25 to $30,000 a
month. I'm saying 10K. And I'm assuming
they're similar size. They might be the
similar size. I'm they might not be. I
might just be like making some [__] up.
If they're around the same size as you,
a lot of people will think like, okay,
they've done their research on me, which
is obviously a positive, and that's one
of the reasons why I do it. Um, but
yeah, my goal is to make this a
no-brainer. Really think I can benefit
company. you wanted offers value up
front. This is just like some some
copyrighting. I'm just trying to make it
more casual. Would you be able to do a
50-minute call about this? If so, host
3:30 p.m. tomorrow, 4 p.m. Tuesday. I
can send over a Cal invite. If so, just
GVE me a shout. Thanks, Muel. What's the
GVE here? That's um just a spelling
mistake. And you want a spelling mistake
somewhere in an email. If you're sending
it at scale, you literally want to have
like something in your email be like,
"Oh, that's cute. You know, this fella
made a mistake." I don't know.
Generally, I put that at the end after I
built all of this trust and offer and
stuff like that. And people are like,
"Oh, okay." Like, you know, that's fine.
and they're willing to forgive me. If I
do it at the beginning, some people are
just have their heads so far up their
ass like, "Oh, you don't know how to
spell your email right? Ridiculous." And
then they never talk to me again. Go
read an encyclopedia or something. I
don't know what they do in their spare
time. But anyway, the point that I'm
making is um this follows that formula.
I would consider this an okay email
despite the fact that it's pretty long.
This is I would consider a better email
because it's shorter, punchier, and has
more of the things in the in the in the
sequence that I like. Um but this is
what I'm going to be doing for a bunch
of emails later on. I'm literally just
going to be like roasting them all and
then covering why they're bad and then
how you can make them better and
rewriting them. Okay, so just to recap
because recapping is how you get things
stuck in your head. Four steps. The
first is personalization. The second is
the who am I and why do I matter. The
third is the offer and the fourth is the
call to action. You need all four. Do
not try bending or breaking the rules
until you understand them. You know, if
I write an email, I might screw around
with this just a little bit because I've
been there. I've done that. I understand
that there are some situations that
don't always fall into the formula. I
want you guys to know that like 80 to
90% of all situations will fall within
the formula. Whether you're pitching
through some sort of like LinkedIn DM,
whether you're doing some sort of SMS,
whether you're literally writing snail
mail, packaging it, and sending it to
people alongside some, you know, cute
little swag box or whatever. All stuff
that I've done, this formula works
really well. Let's get on to the next
part of this course, which is going to
be me constructing a bunch of different
offers for you that you can either copy
and paste or get inspiration from to
write your own. Okay, so I've already
alluded a little bit to this before, but
the way that you construct offers and
really the way you convert people into
any sort of outcome with copywriting is
according to what I will call the offer
formula. And I want you to know that
everybody has their own version of the
offer formula. Any big copyrightiting
person or I don't know YouTube guru or
whatever will have what they call their
offer formula. And it'll probably look a
little bit different from what I call my
offer formula. That said, if you're
watching my course, you should probably
use my offer formula. And to make it
really simple, my offer formula is okay.
Conversion rate is equal to the return
on investment you can convince somebody
of times their trust that you can
actually deliver that return on
investment divided by the friction
involved in going through the process of
uh you know accepting your offer and so
on and so forth. And so very simple
formula here. CVR which we can make even
simpler just a little percentage sign is
equal to the return on investment times
the trust divided by friction. Now why
is this important? Am I actually going
around calculating you know the the math
for every single person? Am I like well
they trust me 0.5 and the return on
investment is $15,000. The friction is
one. Therefore the percentage conversion
rate is 7,500%.
No obviously not. Uh the reason why we
use an offer formula like this is just
so that we can constantly bring our
awareness to the three prime movers, the
three things that are actually very very
important in determining um you know
whether somebody takes you up on it. And
I mean realistically there are tiny
little other features as well that I'm
not talking about here, but they all
round to zero. The things that are
really the most important are just like
what return on investment can you put in
front of somebody? What sort of trust
can you give them that you will deliver
on your promises? And then how does the
friction um kind of play into that? So
I'm just going to restate it up here.
It's just I'm going to use text so that
it's a little bit easier to see. We'll
say percentage is equal to and then I'll
go return on investment
times trust that you'll fulfill.
Okay. And then we'll have a little
divide sign. And then underneath that,
which I will draw my little divide sign
in a second, we'll go friction in
implementation.
And I'll put that in brackets, too, just
because I like when things look nice.
Okay, so restated, our offer formula is
what is the return on investment times
the trust that I'll be able to fulfill
this divided by the friction and
actually implementing the offer. Pretty
straightforward. Let's go through every
single one of these one by one. So what
is return on investment really? Okay, in
our offer formula, return on investment
is just what sort of result are we
actually driving? And so an example of a
result that I'm actually driving might
be I'll book you 20 meetings in 60 days.
Okay,
this is an example of a result. What
must results be? They must be
quantified.
Meaning they must be written in such a
way that there is no ambiguity. Am I
saying 19 meetings, 21 meetings? Am I am
I giving them a range in 30 to 60 days?
Am I am I giving them I'll book you some
meetings? I'll book you meetings. These
are all examples of things I've actually
seen in copy that has been sent to me or
copy inside of maker school my
community. It needs to be abundantly
clear what it is that they are getting.
So what is a meeting really? A meeting
is obviously like a video call with a
prospect. Okay, if I don't make that
clear, if it is not clear to my prospect
what the meeting is. You know, if I just
say, I'll book you 20 conversations,
right? What a conversation sort of has a
different connotation than a meeting,
right? Most people understand a meeting
to be what you probably think a meeting
is where you sit down, you have a call
with somebody or you know, you visit
them in their office physically if
that's the offer that you're running.
Probably most likely call though.
Whereas a conversation could be
anything. It could be like a reply to an
email. Likewise, if you're selling
replies, well, then you you write
replies, okay? You don't write meetings.
Okay? So, quantified, it has to be
clear.
Then perhaps most importantly, it has to
be time bound. Time bounding is really
important. Not a lot of people talk
about it, but um if you don't have some
sort of like definition of done, you
won't be able to go to the next part,
which is the risk mitigation. Like, I'll
book you 20 meetings. It's like, okay, I
I'll book you 20 meetings or you won't
pay a cent hypothetically. It's like,
okay, so technically speaking, you can
book me one meeting this year, 19
meetings in 40 years from now, and you
will have qualified for the guarantee.
When the hell do I get my money back,
man? So, you're going to need some sort
of like uh time bound. Okay, so very
simple. We have a result right over
here. We're going to have some sort of
time. And both of these together are
sort of like your return on investment
math. The next is the trust that you'll
actually be able to fulfill what it is
that you are offering. And this is where
those other things that come before and
then after, okay, come into play. So
trust is typically built off rapport.
Trust is built built off of social
proof.
Trust is built off of how much they are
in your inroup. Okay? How much you can
demonstrate to them that you are within
their ingroup.
And it's also authority. If you're an
authority figure, you're highly
credentialed and so on and so forth,
then the probability that they think
you'll be able to fulfill what it is
that you're trying to say is probably
higher. Like if you're walking down the
street and then, you know, somebody's
having a heart attack or something like
that, you say, "Help, I need a doctor.
Is anybody here a doctor?" And some guy
says, "Uh, oh yeah, you know, I did my
uh, you know, my holistic medicine
certificate back in 1992." And then some
other guy's like, "Yes, I'm an emergency
doctor." you know, it's like which one
do you trust will be able to fulfill the
offer in this case, which is potentially
revive this fella? Probably not like
some holistic one-year certificate, but
probably the guy that's, you know,
trained for god knows how many years and
currently works in the emergency
department, right? Likewise, you know,
if I'm telling somebody, hey, I'll book
you 20 meetings in 60 days. Okay?
if they're within my in-group, if if
they do exactly what it is that I do, if
I'm familiar with that and it's clear to
me that they're familiar with that, the
subject matter of my offer, maybe I'm
some managed service provider that does
some specific IT thing, some Linux
installs on like uh servers and, you
know, I make it clear that I know how to
do the same thing. Obviously, I'm going
to trust that that they'll be able to
fulfill this more because they're within
my niche. They they pro they've proven
themselves to have done this before.
Likewise, if it's literally like, "Hey,
by the way, last week I booked 96
meetings in one week for a managed
service provider who I've been working
with for the better part of the last 3
years. Uh, you know, after starting my
own managed service provider practice or
or firm, you know, obviously you have
tremendous amount of social proof there,
right? And it's like, oh, okay, they've
not just delivered this result before,
they delivered many, many more times
this result as well." So for instance,
in a dental campaign that I'm running,
um you know, our actual offer, the
quantifiable result that we are willing
to drive is actually very low compared
to what we have proven that we can do in
the past. And we've set this low
partially because we also have sort of
like an onboarding cost to this. Um so
there's some cost per acquisition or
cost of acquiring a customer math there,
but also more so we can literally say
like this is no big deal to us at all.
like we can we can get 10 new patients
in your door in the next 30 days for
like full uh uh you know new patient
exams NPEs. Uh they'll pay full price.
Um you know we'll we'll get them in with
like the lowest possible offer, some
little toothbrush and and we'll do it
all for you in the next 30 days from the
time of this email. By the way, last
week we generated 109 and it's like oh
wow okay so 10 in a month versus 109 in
a week. Like wow you I trust that
they'll probably be able to fill this
tiny little pidley thing. So in-group
authority, social proof and rapport, all
very important. Okay. So just to clarify
here, the offer bit is I'll do whatever
thing for you in whatever time or
whatever risk mitigation, which I'll
talk about in a second.
Okay. The trust that you'll fulfill is
really built before and after. Um so the
trust you'll build you are building is
done in like the social proof section,
which is a little bit earlier on or you
know it's done throughout the offer
simply because you're deciding to put
your social proof in the same section.
But regardless, like these are all
components that you need to have. Okay.
So, the way that you maximize your
conversion rate is you deliver a really
high potential ROI right here with the
offer. Then you give them a lot of trust
that you'll be able to fulfill it by
aligning and rapport, social, proof,
in-group, and then authority. And then
finally, that last piece is friction
implementation.
This is where you make it really easy
to start.
And so, if you think about it, you know,
I could have the best most amazing offer
in the world. Maybe it is. you know,
I'll book you 20 meetings in 60 days for
um I don't know, like a private equity
firm. Now, keep in mind, some of these
companies are willing to pay up to like
several thousand dollar for a single
meeting. And it's like, I'll book you 20
in 2 months and you've had an average of
like one a month for the last like year.
It's like, holy [__] you're literally
going to 20x my pipeline in two months?
It's like that's worth like $40,000 and
you're going to do it for me upfront
guaranteed or I give you all the money
back? That's wild. Seriously. It's like,
yeah. Um, the only issue is in order to
start, you need to give me your
firstborn son. Well, am I going to want
to say yes to that offer? I don't know.
Maybe I don't like my firstborn son.
Billy, go ahead. Uh, no. I'm obviously
not going to say yes to that offer,
right? If I'm like, hey, you know, we'll
do this for you, but it's going to
require an intensive 10-hour workshop
where like we sit you down and walk you
through how to do all this stuff in your
business. Technically, despite the fact
that it's free, it might be free like at
face value, but I'm still spending in
terms of my time and my and and my
energy. And so you're spending the
friction. And so what you want to do is
you want to make it really, really easy
to start. Okay? So the way that you make
it really easy to start is you say terms
like,"I'll just need 15 minutes of your
time over a brief call
once at the beginning
somewhere in your email.
We won't have I can't spell for the life
of me today. we won't have to talk and
talk again until I deliver
all 20 meetings or something like that.
Okay. All right. And then in addition,
so this is sort of like
making it really clear what the time
bound
and then the extent of involvement is.
In addition to these two things, you
also can make it really, really
straightforward to start by saying
something like the lines of, "How does
3:30 p.m. today sound?" I can give you a
ring at insert number here or
send you a one-click Google Meet invite.
These make it really easy to start
because all I have to do if I'm
interested is say yes. Then I've
defaulted into the action path of this
guy's going to give me a ring, add
whatever this number is. If the number's
wrong, it's really easy for me to just
type in the real number and say, "Okay,
call me here." If that time doesn't
work, it's really easy for me to be
like, "Oh, can you do 4:30?" And if that
doesn't work, it's or if all of this
stuff does work, um, I know I'm going to
get a one-click Google Meet invite,
right? So, I just say, "Okay, send me
the invite." And so, there's like
basically zero friction there. And then
most importantly of all really okay um
you know if I don't generate you let's
say 20 meetings in 60 days you don't pay
a scent like really a big chunk of the
friction is like okay so how much money
is it and it's like oh you don't
actually have to pay a scent unless I
achieve you this massive crazy outcome
and so in this way the risk mitigation
is a part of minimizing friction so I
mean you put all that together right and
I'm not going to include the
personalization step here but assuming
you have some sort of like, you know,
personalization up top. And I'm using
typical liquid syntax for variables,
which you'll find very often in cold
email campaigns and stuff like that
where you have like these two little um
uh curly brackets. Okay? It might
literally be like,
I'll book you 20 meetings in 60 days or
you don't pay. It'll take just 15
minutes of your time over a brief call
once at the beginning and we won't have
to talk again until all 20 meetings are
delivered.
How does 3:30 p.m. today sound? I can
give you a ring at insert number here or
send you a oneclick Google Meet invite.
To be clear, I am so confident in this
that if I don't generate you 20 meetings
in 60 days, you won't pay a cent.
Thanks.
Okay, so this right here could actually
work reasonably well assuming your
personalization is fine, right? Hey
Pete, love your channel, man. Big fan of
X, Y, and Z. I know you mentioned in a
previous video you wanted to bump up the
lead genen and as somebody that
currently works in B2B outbound think I
have the solution for you. I'll book you
20 meetings in 60 days or you don't pay.
I know you're busy so it'll take just 15
minutes of your time over a brief call
once at the beginning and we won't even
have to talk again until all 20 meetings
are delivered. To be clear, I'm so
confident in this cuz I do it every day
that if I don't generate you 20 meetings
60 days, you won't pay me a scent. How
does 3:30 p.m. today sound? I can give
you a ring at 608299-4393
or I can send you a oneclick Google meet
invite. Just let me know. Thanks, Nick.
Dress it up however the heck you want.
But this is like this is really how you
tie together the offer with friction
minimization
um as well as obviously maximization of
perceived return on investment with the
20 meetings 60 days. Okay. And I mean I
don't just use this formula in offers to
be clear like I use this exact formula
here throughout everything. I use it in
the sales process all the time. you
know, if I'm having a conversation with
somebody in sort of a sale context,
right? It's like a I don't know B2B AI
growth implementation project, right?
Which is uh stuff that I do basically at
least every couple of months now. So my
whole goal is just to demonstrate a big
return on investment. It's like, okay,
so how big is the need that this
customer has? And when I say need, it's
like, how much money is this currently
costing them? And it's like, okay, if I
can figure that out, then I'm like,
okay, how much money would they be
making if I solve this? And so now I
have both the um direct expense and then
I also have the opportunity cost. I
stack those together and it's like,
"Hey, I can make you 5x that." Now, as a
business owner, somebody says, "Hey, I
can make you 500% of your money in 60
days." You're thinking, "Holy [__]
that's a wild return on investment. I
couldn't get that in a million years in
the freaking S&P 500, but I'm going to
get 500% in 60 days." That almost sounds
too good to be true. And then it's like
the only other two factors that apply,
okay, once you've established the return
on investment are like, okay, I mean, if
this offer is so good, can I trust that
this man's going to deliver it for me?
And then like, you know, if this offer
is so good and I can trust that this man
will deliver it for me, like what do I
have to do in order to get started? Like
chop up my left nut and serve it to him
on a platter. Pardon my crassness, but
that's more or less it, right? And so
that's where the return on investment
comes in. Um, and it's not just a factor
of like outbound marketing. It's
obviously very important in sales.
That's where the trust that you'll
fulfill comes in. And it's not just a
factor in outbound marketing. It's also
in sales. And that's where the friction
and the implementation comes in. You
just always want to make things as easy
as possible. Whether it is over the
course of an email, although it is over
the course of, let's say, like a more
lengthy sales sort of encounter, whether
it's a call, whether it's something
else. Okay, so this is sort of the thing
that underscores the vast majority of
what I consider to be successful offers.
This is the same offer that I currently
use, same offer formula that I currently
use in my inbound product, Maker School,
in case you guys are curious. So, I
mean, like, uh, I don't know, last
month, we're probably going to do
somewhere between 230 to 250,000 in
Maker School. And the main reason why it
works so well is because I literally
have an offer that says you get your
first paying client in 90 days or your
money back. Um, this is not just an
inbound thing. Obviously, like outbound
is tremendous. This is tremendously
valuable in outbound, but I also want to
show you the supplies for inbound. Um,
you know, I've just been using offers
since basically day one. And then
another reason why offers work so well,
which I'm just going to call final point
before we talk some more examples and
whatnot, is offers basically
3x your top of funnel.
So if you think about it, we went from
100% okay to 300% revenue immediately
at a cost of around 10% of your margin
because realistically there will be some
situations which you cannot fulfill the
offer. And so what we're doing is we're
going from 300%.
Think about it 270%. We're taking 10% of
that off. And so what it is is before
you have an offer, the math is something
like, you know, I made 100%. So I'm
making whatever I'm making now. Then
after it's like, okay, I'm now making
270%. And so it's like 2.7x
total profit. Would you say no to this?
I wouldn't say no to this. Why not have
an offer? Why not have a guarantee? I
mean, it's just free money on the table.
Sure. I mean, you know, you're going to
have to put your whatever on the table,
but that's how you get anything done in
life. Okay? I'm not going to continue
trying to convince you to have an offer.
Obviously, you know, that offers are
important and something that you need.
From now on, I think what I'm going to
do is show you guys how to establish a
good offer um with this really simple
example and then just make it more and
more complicated over time. And then
I'll just show you like 20 examples.
Well, maybe not 20. I'll show you guys
probably between 5 to 10 examples of
offers you could realistically use.
Okay. So, what I have next is just a
giant collection of offers. I'm not
going to pretend these offers are the
best. We're going to deconstruct some of
them side by side. I'll show you guys
real offers that I've used in my own
business. Um, leftclick as well as in 1
second a copy, which I've killed over
$90,000 a month, as well as a bunch of
uh big firms that I've worked with that
have launched. Either the exact same
offer or a slightly different offer that
I've obiscated for uh privacy reasons.
But yeah, I mean, I got I got a ton over
here. Um, the first is Legion. So, I
will guarantee you 20 booked sales
appointments in the next 60 days or you
don't pay, no strings. Just say yes and
I'll get started. pretty simple and
straightforward offer, right? Hopefully
you guys see how all these components
come together. To be really clear, the
way I'm going to do this is uh for
stroke, I'll have red be the um let's
just make a little legend over here.
I'll have this be the outcome and then
the green over here will be the time and
then the um let's just do blue over here
will be the risk mitigation. And this is
basically going to be like the
guarantee. Okay? And I want you to I
want you to know and notice that like
not everything is going to follow this
exact structure. And that's okay, right?
Not everything needs to, but okay, I
will guarantee you 20 booked sales
appointments. Okay, so what is the
outcome here? It's obviously 20 booked
sales appointments in the next 60 days.
So the next 60 days, then what is the
guarantee? Or you don't pay, no strings
attached. Just say yes, not get started.
This is obviously something that is
supposed to reduce friction. Although,
um, despite the fact that I ran this up
and I used this to generate over $70,000
one month, I would not actually
recommend just Say Yes campaigns as of
the time of this recording, just because
I find people are kind of tired of that.
Okay, here's one for a live chat
software that a customer of mine was
selling. I'll build a worldclass live
chat widget on your website. So, what is
the outcome? I'll build a worldclass
live chat widget on your website. Okay?
And there's actually more to this than
that. At no cost. I won't charge you
anything until you get your first 10
paying clients.
So, notice how we're deviating from the
simple sort of oneline thing and we're
actually sort of splitting our offer now
into two outcomes. The first the the
real outcome is the 10 first paying
clients, right? But we're going to do
that through a world-class live chat
widget. So, if you think about what are
they getting? They're getting both the
10 paying clients. They're also getting
the worldclass live chat widget. You
know what else is as well? Despite the
fact that I pressed on time so much, um
this doesn't actually have a time. Why?
because it's sort of like
self-liquidating. I won't charge you
anything until you get your first 10
paying clients. Making this completely
risk-free. So, is I won't charge you
anything until you get your first 10
paying clients. Realistically here, the
reason why we don't need a time is
because we're not actually charging them
anything. When we get them the outcome,
which ideally we want to do really
quick, we we charge them. But that's how
that business model works, right? Which
is quite different from, you know, this
very standard one that you saw up here.
Okay? And this is like quite a different
one. The rest of them them are going to
be quite more templated, but still I
wanted to show you just how wild these
things can get. What's the outcome?
First of all, no cost and then
completely risk-free. And I won't charge
you anything. So to be clear, it's free.
It's free and then it's risk- free.
We're just making it really really clear
and we're sort of driving it home. Okay,
cool. Proposal system. I will build you
the same high converting proposal
template that's made company for 5 mil
in the last 2 months. I'll do all the
work up front. Only if you like it,
we'll ask you to work with me. just say
yes and I'll send you yours within 48
hours. So hopefully this is pretty
clear. Instead of selling some sort of
like revenue based outcome, what we're
doing now is we're selling um we're
giving them a product. And so the
product in this case is the same high
converting proposal template that's made
company over five on the last two
months. Ideally company is like a
recognizable company that they would
know. And so in our case it was like a
company that was in the niche that
you'll be reaching out to. So basically
everybody knew where the company was.
That's why it's actually valuable. Um,
and then what what else are we doing
here for time? Okay, the last two months
is not the time. What the time is is
within 48 hours. And then the way that
the offer works here is I'll do all the
work up front. Meaning that you don't
need to do anything and only if you like
it will I ask you to work with me. And
so what are we doing here now? We're
basically doing like a variant of like a
satisfaction guarantee offer. We're just
not pitching it as like satisfaction
guaranteed. You know, basically what
we're doing is we're saying we're just
going to do this thing for you
completely for free. do it all up front
and only if you like it will I actually
ask you to pay me. Just say yes and I'll
send you yours within 48 hours. They ask
you to work with me here. It's doing
some heavy lifting but it's really just
like pay me, right? Okay. How about SEO
audit? I mean like very few people are
doing SEO audits now. But just to be
clear, you can I'll run a full SEO audit
on your site. Show you exactly which
pages are losing you traffic completely
free. Okay. So I'll run a full SEO audit
on your site and show you exactly which
pages are losing you traffic.
The time is over here. Just say yes. I
I'll have it in your inbox within 24
hours. Sorry, I meant uh green here. And
then blue is completely free. Okay,
let's check out this one. This is a
little bit more standardized. I'll build
you a Google Ads campaign. So, what are
they going to get? A Google Ads campaign
that I guarantee will generate 50
qualified leads. 50 qualified leads in
30 days. You don't pay a scent. Just say
yes and I'll get it live this week. So
the outcome is obviously the Google Ads
campaign. Okay. What is the time? It's
the 30 days. Okay. Or you don't pay a
scent is basically it's going to be free
unless we achieve this outcome. Just say
yes and I'll get a live this week. And
then also from like a time perspect I
got to be able to like hotkey this stuff
cuz it's starting to get annoying. Um is
going to be right over here. Content
writing. This is a real offer I ran for
one second copy. It was integral in
scaling us to92 $2,000 a month. Just
send us a title, okay? And we'll give
you a completely free 500word blog post
on the topic. No strings attached. Oh,
little bit different format, right? What
are they getting? Completely free. Well,
really what they're getting is they're
getting a 500word blog post on the topic
that they send. Okay. The time period,
and I think I might have actually taken
this time period out, would be something
like in 48 hours. So, let's not just
change everything, please. We'll go
green. And what exactly is the
guarantee? Well, the guarantee is that
it's completely free and all you have to
do is send us a title, which is a
friction minimization framework. Okay,
let's keep grinding this out. CRM. I
will build you a worldclass industry CRM
at no cost. I'll pay for it all myself.
Do all the work up front and only if you
like it will I ask you to work with me.
Just say yes and I'll send you a link
within 48 hours. I will build you a
worldclass industry CRM at no cost. This
is the outcome, right? I will build you
this. You can also sort of make this the
outcome if you want. You know, the fact
that I'm paying for it myself, although
obviously I'm not actually paying that
much money because I have infrastructure
to take care of it. What's the time
period here? Time period is within 48
hours. And then what exactly is the
guarantee? I guarantee I'll pay for it
all myself. I'll do all the work up
front and only if you like it will I ask
you to work with me. You guys see how
these are all following similar sorts of
structures despite the fact that some of
their guarantees and some of their
outcomes and times are all over the
place. Okay, this is a campaign I ran
for uh one of the dental companies that
I used to work with. I'll give you a
completely free entry into program which
will let you fulfill your 20 CME credit
requirement at no cost. Just say yes and
we'll send over a private invite link.
Okay, I'll give you completely free
entry into program. Now I um you know I
took out the actual program itself but
this program like has a time right so
this program is specifically only taking
place at whatever time period and they
they know it because it's like a program
that's relatively common or popular in
the industry. So, um, despite the fact
that you can't see a time here, this is
sort of, uh, sorry, green. Um, this is
also a time. And then really, what's the
guarantee? It's no cost. Just say yes,
I'll send a private invite link, which
to be clear is another thing that
they're getting. And I try and be really
granular with this stuff, right? Like
people wouldn't consider this a
deliverable, but my deliverable is it's
a private invite link and free entry
into a program, which will let you
fulfill your 20 CME credit requirement
at no cost. Some people have to spend a
fair amount of money to like sign up to
courses and stuff and do that, right? We
can now do that for you for free. Okay,
email marketing. Send me your last three
email campaigns. I will rewrite them for
free. Plus, I'll show you exactly why
the new versions will convert better. No
strings. Okay, this is free. So, the
guarantee is sort of um intertwined with
that. And it's one of those selfi
liquidating offers where it's free, so I
don't make money until they ultimately
do the thing that I want them to do. And
so, we do have some friction here on the
send me three last email campaigns. No
strings, though. just jumping around a
bit because I don't want to do all of
them obviously, but this web design one
can be pretty good. I'll redesign your
homepage for free. What are we doing?
Well, we're sending them a mockup within
72 hours and they only pay if they
absolutely love it. Alternatively, we
could say you only pay if you get 5%
higher or more CVR. Okay, if our CRO
works. So, if it's not super clear here,
it is I will do X thing for you in Y
time. Okay? or Z risk mitigation. Okay,
so this is the outcome.
This was the time.
Then this over here was the basically
like your guarantee,
your like risk reversal
etc. It becomes pretty clear and obvious
how formulas like this work when you get
hit over the head enough times with
them. And I'm not going to go through
the other 30 or 40 over there.
Obviously, there's no need to. But
hopefully you guys see that all we're
really doing is we're just playing
around with this theme. The most
important thing I've come to realize
with cold email and stuff is most people
believe that you have to like just use
pre-existing super high quality winning
email templates. And I mean like email
templates make your life easier for
sure. They definitely do. Don't get me
wrong. But you don't need the template.
What you need is you just need this
system. Because a template that you use
once may work for like a week or two
weeks or a month or a year or whatever,
but eventually it'll stop working
because that's just how the market
works. But a system has a much much
longer lifespan. If you use a template,
okay, this is a famous NYX graph coming
at you. You know, if this is how well it
works and then this is time and this is
the letter C because I didn't spell
success right. The way that a template,
which I will do in red here, works
is, you know, you'll start using it,
it'll work really well, and then it'll
stop working really well. And that's
just because the market will get used to
that template.
The way a system works is a system
basically belines it up and then works
really, really well for a really long
time. Why? Because a system can produce
a million different templates. And
because as long as you're constantly
iterating on the templates themselves
and you know you can apply a little bit
of your human reasoning to it or even AI
reasoning which we'll talk a little bit
about later. Um you can do really really
cool things. You can use these systems
to produce templates that basically
nobody else would have thought that you
know you could you could produce. And so
all I really did to create a big you
know list of winning campaigns
um was I didn't just like copy
templates. I learned the underlying
system and then I could produce any
template. And that's the difference
between, you know, strategies and
tactics.
You know, everybody loves these because,
oh my god, you know, here's a free lead
magnet which shows you exactly what I
sent to make $50,000. It's like, oh my
god, I could just send that make
$50,000. But tactics don't work anywhere
near as the higher level strategy. The
strategy is the system. The tactic is
the template. And as we know that the
templates don't work. So focus more on
like higher level strategy. If you
understand this, if you understand the
strategy, you can understand any
template. Okay, now that hopefully you
guys understand how offers work and you
know what's kind of going on under the
hood there. Let me show you guys how I
would apply all of this to fix up a ton
of mid to terrible cold email campaigns.
Okay, so I've gone ahead and scrolled
through my email inbox and then
generated a big list of a bunch of
different cold emails that I've
received. I think I'm going to keep this
section here to cold emails just cuz
it's pretty simple and straightforward
um you know to do the same format over
again. But I want you to know everything
I'm going to talk about with you guys
now is going to equally apply to like
the SMS section, the uh LinkedIn section
and so on and so forth. Okay. Okay. So
there are multiple things that you can
use to assess an email. The first is you
know like the name. So Maria for
instance. The second is obviously the um
subject line. So loved your fastcast
strategy. The third is the messages that
come in. So hey Nick, totally understand
these bigger pivots sound exciting. And
so on and so on and so on and so forth.
And so I just want you guys to know like
as I'm roasting these emails and then
rewriting them, you guys can improve the
quality of your outbound emails in three
ways. Um by improving the subject line
and the sender, by improving the title,
by improving the uh sender, by improving
the subject line, and then also
improving this teaser, which tends to be
I don't know like if we counted this up
character wise, how many is that? Is
that about 100 or so? You know, some
other ones have longer ones, right? But
um this is probably somewhere around 100
or so. So, if you guys can get your
first 100 characters down to a place
where it's pretty good, then kudos and
awesome for you. All right, let's start
with the very first one here from this
fellow car Charlie Crabtree, which is
pretty cool. And what I'll do is I'll
just open up a Google doc. And inside of
the Google doc, I'm going to have like
the old copy and then the new one. And
then I'll just supply this as basically
like a part of, you know, this course
that you guys can use to go through. And
so, we'll call this cold email roasts
before and then after. And then what I'm
going to do first is I'm just going to
copy in Charlie's email. First I'm say
quick question Nick paste this in. Why
don't we just make this an H3 which is a
heading three to make it clear this is
the subject. Okay great. So first things
first um you know we do have to assess
it based off using our fourstep
copyrightiting formula, right? Is this
like something that follows our four
steps? What you'll find actually is like
a lot of the time they do. Um and I
think this one basically almost does.
Let's take a peek. I think to make this
way easier, I'm actually just going to
put up all of these and then actually
have the copy right over here. I think
that makes more sense. Let me just zoom
in so you guys could see it. Okay, so
now that I've reset this up, basically
the way I'm going to assess these emails
is I'm going to assess them based off of
these principles of why people would say
yes to a message from a stranger. And
then after I've assessed it, I'm just
going to go through and then I'm going
to rewrite the email according to like
my four-step copyrightiting framework.
And you guys could see how we could take
this and then, you know, ideally make it
better. But I do want you guys to know
that like I can't test this against the
original cuz I don't I'm not like the
one who sent the original. So ideally
anytime you have a hypothesis about
whether or not something would work, you
wouldn't just like think that it would
work and it wouldn't just sound nice.
You'd actually go and need to send it,
right? There may be a situation here
where one of the emails that um you know
I rewrote might actually perform worse,
right? There's just no way to know with
the market. Uh I'm quite confident in my
abilities, so I don't think that would
happen. I'm pretty confident I'd
realistically absolutely crush every
single one of the emails that I uh I'm
seeing here. But still, you know, the
recommendation and and my take on it is
always just like, don't listen to your
opinions. Listen to what the market
tells you. Okay. All right. So, the
email itself is quick question, Nick.
Nice. So, they got my name. Hi, Nick. I
know you reach 290K months solo in the
school games. Very cool. Maker School
provides incredible value, but it could
offer even more. Imagine if your members
had 24/7 access to you, acting as their
personal mentor, always ready to help.
This is now a reality. I build custom
AIs for school communities that provide
hands-on training and exclusivity. It
has trained specifically in your
resources and on your unique voice.
Happy to show you how it works over a 15
casual 15-minute video call. How does
Thursday 10 a.m. sound best, Charlie?
Well, Charlie, I'm not seeing anything
here that tells me that you are giving.
What are you giving me? A casual
15-minute video call. Is that really you
giving me something? I don't think
that's you giving me something. That's
you taking something away from me.
You've taken away 15 minutes. It's nice
that you build custom AIs for school
communities and whatnot, but why is that
relevant to me? I'm not seeing any sort
of realistic value here. Um, you're
making me do a lot of like mental work
in order to come to the conclusion that
this thing is beneficial for me myself.
Be much clearer and easier if you just
let me know that this has made money in
the past because ultimately as a
business owner, what would I give a [__]
about money? So anyway, uh, he's not
giving first, so I'm not getting any
value there, right? Uh, micro
commitments. Is he starting with a small
ass scaling up naturally? I mean, yeah,
he's he's doing a 15-minute video call,
so that's pretty good.
Actually,
I'm going to make this an X. What the
heck am I doing? So, he didn't do give
first. He did do micro commitments. And
um how's he doing on social proof? Does
he show specific name numbered results?
Not really. I mean, there's me, but
that's not social proof. Authority. Any
authority here? No, I'm not seeing any
authority. How about rapport? I mean,
he's using language like very cool.
Casual 15-minute video call. I'd say,
you know, rapport is like okay, but
there's no shared context or anything
like that. though scarcity create
legitimate urgency with real capacity
time constraints. Okay, I'm not seeing
anything here that would make me feel
scarce. You know, he's almost getting to
it here where he's saying Maker School
provides incredible value, but it could
offer even more. Imagine if your members
have 24/7 access to you acting as their
personal mentor always ready to help. I
think this could have been a good angle
where he would have essentially pitched
me on the fact that I only have so much
time and you know there are a bunch of
other communities that are growing
shared identity. Has he established any
common ground, same industry challenge
values? No. So, I mean, like just
looking at this kind of quantifiably,
he's done basically I would score this
like a one out of seven. I would
consider this to be a pretty shitty
email. And I don't say that to
absolutely hurt your feelings, Charlie,
whoever you are, you handsome,
presumably handsome gentleman. I just
think you could have done a a much
better job. Okay, so why don't I show
you guys how it works? I'm not going to
touch the subject cuz I think the
subject's fine. Like, quick question,
quick cue, 290K a month solo, whatever.
Like, you know, that's fine. But let's
rewrite this. Hi, Nick. I know you
reached 29K a month solo in the school
game. Very cool. This is this is okay,
you know, like I think there's some
realistically like some grammar that
he's missing.
But imagine if instead, okay, you
segmented your audience and you knew
that you were talking to men, which is
fairly straightforward to do with some
filtering. So huge work on the 290K
and I'll say around,
you know, maybe greater than 290K a
month
solo, man. school games. We're lucky to
have you. Okay, so that's going to be my
personalization, which is step one out
of four. Next up, you know, we've
answered the question, is this person a
spammer? If they're saying huge work on
the 290K month solo manual games, we're
lucky to have you. Odds are probably not
a spammer. So, the next question is, who
the hell is this guy? Right? So, here
we'd probably rewrite instead of this is
now a reality. I would just cut straight
to the chase. I
build custom AIS for school communities
that provide hands-on training. And I
think what he's really wanting to do is
probably just build custom AI coaches.
That's probably the simplest way to say
what it is he's trying to go for. So I
build custom AI coaches for school
communities. Here we're going to need
some social proof. I work with
a few of the top 20 right now, assuming
that he is. Maybe he isn't, in which
case we wouldn't be able to use this
obviously, but we do need some sort of
social proof.
collectively over $500,000 a month in
revenue and train
them specifically on your resources and
unique voice. Through this, we've
managed to save over 20 hours per week
of coach time, which as I'm sure you can
imagine, stacks up quite a bit. Okay,
great. So, what are we doing here? We're
doing two things. We are quantifying
what the social proof is. Okay, so we're
turning that X into a yes. And uh now
we're also um making it really clear
what the value is. Okay, the return on
investment is here. 20 hours per week of
coach time, which I'm sure you imagine
stacks up quite a bit. Now what we need
to do is we need to imply, okay, that we
can do this for them. I'm very
I am confident I could save you a
tremendous amount of time with your
school community.
modest amount of time on your let's just
say
working on your school.
Your group is basically perfect for this
and there is undoubtedly a lot of heavy
lifting
you're doing right now that I think you
don't have to be. What am I doing? I'm
using casual language here and I'm
hedging to make it seem as if I actually
know who this person is despite the fact
that I'm just sending a mass template.
And now it's time for uh the offer.
Okay. Can I put my money where my mouth
is? Could I build you an AI coach in the
next 7 days?
And if it doesn't save you, you know, 5
hours per week or more, maybe I want to
put my money where my mouth is.
Will you let me build you an AI coach in
the next 7 days? And if it doesn't save
you 5 hours per week or more, a high
quality AI coach in the next 7 days,
100% in your tone of voice. If it
doesn't save you 5 hours per week or
four, you wouldn't pay a scent. You
wouldn't have to do anything to get
started other than just send me an
invite to your school. I'll handle all
of the rest in the background.
Let me know if this is worth your time.
If so, could show you how it works over
a casual 15-minute video call.
Can call can ring you. I don't want to
use call twice.
10:00 a.m. today or Thursday?
Best Charlie. Okay, so let's just reread
the before and then the after. Hey Nick,
I know you reached 29K a month still in
school games. Very cool. Maker School
provides incredible value, but it could
offer even more. Imagine if your members
had 24/7 access to you, acting as their
personal mentor, always ready to help.
This is now a reality. I build custom
ads for school communities that provide
hands-on training and exclusivity. The
as trans specifically in your resources
and unique voice. Happy to show you how
it works over a casual 15-minute video
call. How does Thursday 10 a.m. sound?
Best Charlie. This one here is from
Ultra Ego Charlie, the AI coach version
of Charlie. Uh, and it's a lot more
personalized. Hi, Nick. Huge work on the
290K month solo, man. School games were
lucky to have you. I build custom AI
coaches for school communities. I work
with a few of the top 20 right now,
collectively over 500k month in Rev, and
train them specifically in your
resources and unique voice. Through
this, we managed to save over 20 hours
per week of coach time, which I'm sure
you can imagine stacks up quite a bit.
I'm confident I could save you a
tremendous amount of time working on
your school. Your grip is basically
perfect for this, and there's
undoubtedly a lot of heavy lifting
you're doing right now that I think you
don't have to be. This is all cold
reading. I want to put my money where my
mouth is. Will you let me build you a
high-quality AI coach in the next 7
days, 100% your tone of voice? If it
doesn't save you 5 hours per week or
more, you wouldn't pay a scent. You
wouldn't have to do anything to get the
starter other than just send me an
invite to your school. I'll add all the
rest in the background. Let me know this
is worth your time. If so, could show
you how it works or a casual 15-minute
video call can ring you 10 a.m. uh today
or Thursday and then maybe we'll sign it
off with a thanks man. You'll see this
sort of casual qualification is really
important. Now, I'm I'm a I'm a man that
sends to other men for the most part,
right? Um if you are a woman sending to
a bunch of other women to try and sell
them something and even if it's even
tangentially related to, I don't know,
femininity or something like that, you
know, you could absolutely use language
like, "Yo, girl, hey girl, stuff like
that." And uh that it would it would
crush as well. But okay, this is the
before and after. And hopefully you guys
see just how easy it is to take
something that is kind of mid and then
just apply the four-step copyrightiting
framework to turn it into something that
probably a lot better. So, I think what
I'll do here just because I want to be
able to like run this every single time,
I'm just going to move this over here.
Then I'll delete all these. And now you
can see, are we giving? Yes, we're
giving. Why? Because we're offering to
build them a high quality AI coach. So,
that right there, my friends, is what we
call a check mark. Uh, are we asking for
micro commitments, casual 15-minute
call? Absolutely. Are we presenting some
sort of social proof? Absolutely. Are we
demonstrating authority? Yes, I work
with a few of the top 20 right now. Are
we generating rapport? Okay, school
games. We're lucky to have you. This is
very casual. It's very real. Yes. Um,
are we building some sort of scarcity?
Well, what we're doing really is we're
suggesting that this person, myself, is
is spending a tremendous amount of time
working on my school. There's
undoubtedly a lot of heavy lifting
you're doing right now that I don't
think you have to be. This isn't really
direct scarcity necessarily. What we're
doing is we're basically saying, "Hey
man, you only have a certain amount of
time in your day. You're pissing it away
right now and we could fix it with this
system." So, I mean, I probably could
have done a little bit better creating
some sort of legitimate urgency. Um, but
this is still all right. Shared
identity, establishing common ground,
same industry, absolutely with school,
same challenge, same values, 100%. Um,
so I mean like I'm not going to just
grade myself and give myself 100%. And I
think I did okay. Probably like an 80%
or so in, you know, 2 minutes. But, um,
yeah, much better on all fronts. Next
email from Imran over here. You see a
major problem is this email tracked with
Mailswuite because he's adding this to
his email to pitch me. We're not even
getting into what what he's actually
pitching me. Um, you know, I'm
immediately thinking, okay, this guy
just sending me some spam email, right?
His subject line is the word thumbnail
approach
and it says, "Hi, Nicks arrive daily
updates. I'm Imran Jame. I was checking
your YouTube channel and watch a few
your videos. The content's very
informative. I noticed the thumbnails
are decent, but I feel they could be
more eye-catching, get higher clicks.
So, I'm a thumbnail designer. If you
want, I can make one upgraded thumbnail
for your next video for free. No
pressure at all. Just tell me the topic
of your next video and I'll handle it.
Thanks for your time." Then he has his
uh, you know, little signature down
here. Where is it? Oh, even it doesn't
even have a signature down here.
Actually, it doesn't even say Amar on.
It just uh says email tracked with
Mailswuite. Thanks for your time,
Mailswuite. Okay, so why why don't you
use things like Mailswuite? Um you you
can use them. I just wouldn't ever have
an opt out on my email. Some people are
like really, you know, riskaverse and
stuff like that and they think they need
to put optouts in every email. I can
understand why, but uh if you're getting
information from LinkedIn, in my humble
opinion, that's legitimate B2B coms and
I'm not really worried about stuff like
that. So anyway, the big tell for me is
honestly just cutting that out. Um what
are some other horrific aspects of this
email? Um that he's falling prey to like
one of the big issues with templated um
you know copy paste variables which is
just like when he scrapes my YouTube
name it says Nick's drive daily updates.
So this probably works for like more
than 50% of them because more than 50%
of the people he's pitching sorry
because they're probably like name their
names right like my main channel this
would have worked. Hi Nick, right? Still
the last name's kind of weird, but hi
Nick Sarif is better than hi Nick daily
updates, but hi Nick daily updates. It's
like my name isn't Nick Daily updates.
My name is Nick. And you would know this
immediately if you watched 30 seconds of
my content. Hell, if you even just like
made it to my page, right? You'd also
know it if you built a better scraping
system. Another issue here is the fact
that he put the comma before the name.
That just seems weird and it makes my
name seem templated. Okay, next up. I'm
Imran J. I mean, like, kudos to you for
announcing yourself, buddy, but like, it
says it right here. Why do I need to
read it here and then read it right down
here? Do I really need the same thing?
You're just wasting my freaking time and
characters. I was watching your YouTube
channel and watched a few videos. The
content is very informative. So, I was
checking a YouTube video, watch a few of
your videos. Like, personally, I just
think this is way too long for what it
is. Like, you could have just said, I
watched a few videos, right? Same thing.
The content is very informative. Nice
try on the cold reading, so that's good.
You know, the guy's trying to like make
generalized statements that would apply
to me, and that's awesome. I notice the
thumbnails are decent, so he's
pretending to have seen my thumbnails
and I can respect a hustler when I see
one, but I feel they could be more
eye-catching to get higher clicks. Same
thing, right? The reality is like all
YouTubers will probably think so. So,
your content's really informative and
your thumbnails are decent, but I
thought they could be more eye-catching
and get more clicks. Most people are
going to be like, "Yeah, [__] my
content is decent and man, this guy must
have clearly watched my shit." Um, you
know, like assuming there weren't other
issues in the email, I'd probably think
that. Okay, I'm a thumbnail designer. If
you want, I can make one upgrade a
thumbnail for your next video for free.
No pressure at all. So, I mean, it's
good. He's he's giving me something for
free here. But, I mean, I'm a thumbnail
designer. Is that really the best you
could do? Really? Is there anything else
that you could say? I want you to know
that who you are is not like the the the
the work that you do. Okay. Who you are
and why it matters are the people that
you've worked with in the past and the
social proof and authority that you
could claim to your name. So, I'm a
thumbnail designer is weak as hell. No
pressure at all. Just tell me the topic
of your next video. handle it. What are
we What are we missing here? We're
missing a time constraint. Thanks for
your time, Mail. Sweet. Okay, so if I
were to rewrite this email, obviously,
assuming I have access to the resources
to not screw this up so badly, I
probably go, "Hey, hi, Nick."
And assuming I have no personalization,
no AI stuff
could be, "Love your channel, man.
Have watched so many of your videos."
Uh, my girlfriend says I listen to you
more than I listen to her. Well,
if you got a message like this, what are
you thinking? You're thinking, "This is
a real person, right? We have something
funny. We have voluntary disclosure of
information. We got a lot of shit." So,
love your channel, man. I've watched so
many of your vids. My girlfriend says I
listen to you more than I listen to her.
Lol.
I make thumbnails for
for a few creators around one to two mil
subs right now. Maybe we could say I
don't know if we're trying to like dress
it down.
I'm not here to pitch you
on paying me or anything. Just noticed
your thumbs
were leaving some money on the table.
Idk how much? But if your CTRs aren't
consistently Now we're we're using
YouTuber language here. Why? Because
it's creating a sense of shared
identity. Are consistently hitting, you
know, 7 to 8%.
I don't know how much, but I imo your
CTRs probably aren't consistent 78%
because of minor placement issues and
stuff like that.
I really like your stuff as mentioned
putting it on the table here. I would
will love to make you a 100% free thumb
for a pre-existing
or new video.
I do this in 48 hours. You just send me
over
over the title, some bullets, and I give
it to you at no cost.
Why? because I want to
show you some value upfront. I think I
can realistically help you in many ways.
This just being one,
but I know you have to bring food to the
table if you want.
I know you should bring food to the
table if you want to eat. No pressure at
all.
Just send just let me know if you want
to take me up on this and I'll shoot it
over.
Delete that.
What was this guy's name? Imran. Okay.
All right. So, what we had earlier was,
"I'm J. I'm checking your YouTube
channel. Watch for your videos. The
content is very informative. I notice
the thumbnails are decent, but I feel
they could be more eye-catching to get
higher quality clicks. I'm a thumbnail
designer fella, and I'm going to leave
it at that. If you want, I can make one
graded thumbnail for your next video for
free. No pressure at all. Just tell me
the topic of your next video and I'll
handle it. Thanks for your time with
Mailsweet. The upgraded version is, "Hi,
Nick. I love your channel, man. I've
watched so many of your vids. My GF says
I listen to you more than I listen to
her. Lol. I make thumbnails for a few
creators. One or two mill subs right now
collectively. I'm not here to pitch you
on paying me or anything. Just noticed
your thumbs were leaving some money on
the table. I don't know how much, but
IMO, your CTR is probably aren't
consistently hitting 78% because of
minor placement issues and stuff like
that. I really like your stuff as
mentioned. Putting it on the table here.
I'd love to make you a 100% free thumb
for a pre-existing or new video. I do
this in 48 hours. You just send me over
some titles and bullets and I give it to
you at no cost. Why? Because I want to
show you some value up front. I think I
can realistically help you in many ways.
This just being one. Just let me know.
Uh but I know you should bring food to
the table if
but I know I should bring food to the
table if I want to eat. No pressure at
all. Just let me know if you want me to
take want to take me up on this and I'll
shoot it over respectfully, Iran. So I
mean like you know just sort of
quantifying it here. Um what is this
doing? This is giving, right? Like we're
actually offering to give them something
which is nice. Um we're giving micro
commitments. The micro commitment is
literally just like send me a title and
a topic. So very small. Uh we're
demonstrating social proof of the one to
2 mill. We have authority here as well
because we're working with big boys.
These two are pretty tied. Rapport. That
first line does that job really well. Um
scarcity. The whole idea is you
basically just want people to think
they're losing something. And right now
um we're making them feel like we're
losing they're losing something. Then
shared identity. We're on YouTube. We're
we're using terms like CTR, subs, right?
Thumbs. These are all pieces of language
that people would use if they're really
in my industry. And so, not to toot my
own horn here, but I think this email
would perform reasonably powerfully.
Obviously, the big outstanding things
are, do you have a reasonable case study
with one or two mill subs? I want you to
know though, case studies are a lot
easier to make than most people think.
Uh, most people have some sort of
background experience that they can
weave and turn into a nice sounding case
study, at least for marketing purposes,
with, I don't know, just a couple of
hours of work. All right, next one here
from Kashif. We have, "Can I send in all
caps?" Uh oh, rough stuff. I'm just
going to take a peek here. And I noticed
that Kashif is unfortunately falling
prey to, let's see, what was the subject
line? Hi, Nick Automates. He's fallen
prey to the same sort of problem that we
had earlier. And that's where people
just scrape your YouTube title. Hi, Nick
Automates. Congrats on getting 35K
subscribers. That's awesome. This is
actually pretty good. I mean, congrats
on whatever achieving some goal. That's
awesome. I mean, if I wasn't, you know,
so goddamn in tune with this stuff, I'd
be like, "Oh, wow. Maybe he's real." I
watched your video, uh, sorry, quote,
"Use this advanced Cloud Code prompt to
get 10x better results from your AA
agent." Great topic. I think your videos
get more watch time in the first 60
seconds were faster and more exciting.
We helped a creator grow from 29K to 61K
subscribers in 4 months. We tested
different editing styles and used the
one that kept people watching longer. If
you want, I can send you two to three
editing samples of our work, some
thumbnail examples, one simple idea you
can use right away to grow faster.
capitals. Can I send? Thanks, Kashifam.
All right, so what did this fella do,
right? Well, he's offering to basically
do some sort of giveaway. One simple
idea you could use right away to grow
faster.
You know, the way he's pitching it
almost makes me feel like it's something
custom for me, even though it's
obviously not. Um, so that's good,
right? So, if you think about it, like
right now, what he's doing is
accomplishing sort of that that give
first. He's also doing the micro
commitments because he's being like, can
I send? He has some social proof here.
We helped a creator grow from whatever
to whatever, which is pretty good. And
then, I mean, he's trying to do the
rapport. I give him like a 0.5 on that.
Okay. He's trying to establish a sense
of shared identity, but I'll be honest,
I don't really I don't really get that.
The reason why is cuz he's not actually
mentioning like who he is or what he
does. It's literally just like we helped
a creator immediately. It's like, okay,
like why just dive right into that? So,
I mean, this, believe it or not, is
actually a much better email than
before. um just avoiding the fact that
he absolutely screwed the pooch with
Nick automates. But imagine if it was
like, "Hey Nick, congrats on hitting
35K. That's awesome." Okay, you'd
actually do do okay. I'd say the big
issue is really that plus this. I see
this trend a lot, but um people will
often put like quotes around a variable
or they will actually like they'll bold
it or they'll do this. If you do this, I
know you're just scraping this from the
internet. Why would you add special
formatting to a variable? The whole idea
is you want the variable to seem as if
it's built into your email as if I wrote
it myself, right? Your issue is you're
using quotes. Why would you use quotes?
Don't do that, man. I mean, like, if you
know somebody's like in AI, okay,
there's so many ways you could very
easily just like make a make a thing. I
watched your last Cloud Code video. It's
like, oh, you know, if you scraping uh
creators that make AI content, odds are
they probably have a cloud code video,
right? You could you could just do this
over and over and over and over and over
again and you don't even need any sort
of AI based personalization. You you
know people would 100% eat that up. So
anyway, we're going to remove the
subject line. But obviously don't screw
that up. And and by the way, what are
some quick and easy ways to do this?
This is wild, but you can literally just
like procedurally you could just any
data source you're scraping just take
the first word. Hey Nick Sar. Hey Nick
automates. Hey Nick Sar daily updates.
If you just took the first word there it
would all be hey Nick. And odds are if
there's a space in the word, it's
because the space is their name. Okay.
Alternatively, it's something like
leftclick
ink. Well, what happens if you take the
first word? Well, now at least you're
you have my company name, right? So,
just take the first word. Hey, Nick.
Congrats on 35K,
man. That's awesome, bro. Right? You can
do a bunch of stuff like that.
Awesome work. been with you since the OG
days and it's great to see you get some
traction.
Much deserved traction.
Okay. I watched your video. Use this
advanced clip. I watched your last
Claude Code video
and loved it.
Extremely valuable.
But to make a long story short, I think
you could get
much more watch time if you made the
first 60 seconds
more engaging.
Now, this is out of left field.
Acknowledging the fact that they don't
know who I am, and I'm making sort of a
a claim here, which might upset them.
I work with a bunch of YouTubers right
now.
One of my channels,
one of
my
clients just went from 21K to 6 29K to
61K subs in 4 months. We tested
different styles
and used the one that kept people
watching longer. I'm even using a lot of
his copy.
I know you haven't or am aware you
haven't heard of me.
Willing to prove it.
Can I send you?
Okay. And then it's like, okay, like
what what are we actually doing here?
Two to three editing samples of our
work. Nah, you can't lead with that
because this is obviously templated.
A couple of thumbnail examples for you.
Now, they're going to think that this is
unique, which means I'm going to get at
least one micro commitment even if I am
sending a templated thing.
An idea for your next vid.
I scraped a bunch of other clawed code,
right? We're just going to reuse the
same variable here,
claude code idea, uh, claude code
YouTubers, and have
a couple of cool takes for you. two to
three editing samples of my work.
Let me know. Thanks, Kashif. All right.
So, what are we doing here? Um, number
one, if I just delete all of these,
how are we scoring? Basically,
well, we're giving, right? We have the
giving down over here. And I'm actually
giving a fair number of things. Uh,
we're establishing micro commitments
through giving something and then having
the person obviously just leverage up
and ratchet up from there. I have some
social proof because of the 29K to 61K
cuz she already had this which is nice.
I have some authorities because I work
with a bunch of different YouTubers and
I'm also borrowing their authority by
saying we I'm building rapport with a
brief personalization. Been with you
since the OG days. The hell does that
mean? Also, I don't even know because
there there's no way to verify that or
anything. Basically, you're just saying
I've been with you for a while.
Scarcity. Um,
you know, I'm establishing that they are
losing money because they don't have a
simple thing fixed. And then shared
identity as well is like we tested
different styles, used the one that kept
people watching longer. So pretty
straightforward fix there. Hopefully you
guys are starting to see a lot of the
same trends over and over and over
again. Right. But see you later, Kashie.
All right. Next up, Grove AI War Room
set up as a service, which I think is
just terrible. But um I know this is
being sent from some agent mail at
somebody trying to be really cool with
AI agents. I just want to show you guys
and talk a little bit about why I think
that's total trash. And then what I'll
do is I'll actually take the uh the
title as well. So to make a long story
short, there's somebody emailing me
trying to pitch me on like some AI
automation service. Uh the subject line
is Nick Spacem. You scale to 72K a month
with automation. Here's the next level.
The reason why this immediately is like
very jarring is because I mean there's a
few reasons. one, human beings just
don't really talk like this, and there's
just so many LLM isms in the um email
itself that like just it just crushes
any hope of somebody actually taking
this seriously unless they're 90 years
old and they've never gotten an AI email
before. So, Nick space M-space, you
scale to 72 came out with automation.
Here's the next level with a period. Hey
Nick, 72 came out with Maker School by
teaching automation. You clearly
understand what systems can do. What
about running your operations with AI
agents instead of just teaching others
about automation? I'm Grove, an AICO
running a 10 agent operations system.
Each agent specializes in one domain and
they coordinate autonomously. Research,
sales, marketing, finance, content,
engineering, ops, brand, strategy, and
coordination. For Maker School, this
could work two ways. Run your own ops on
AI agents content distribution student
pipeline financial tracking. White label
the war room setup for your students. A
new revenue stream teaching AI ops. 500
bucks for a single agent starter. 25,500
for the full 10 agent setup. You teach
automation, but this is automation that
runs itself. And then they even link me.
Grove ASEO war set up a service and then
for whatever reason I also have their
email. All right. So I mean like what am
I getting here? Nothing. So they fail
the give first, right? I don't get
anything. I just get a landing page
which just takes my time. What sort of
micro commitments do I have here? Hey,
do you want to spend $500? Is that a
micro commitment? No. In general, I
would never put a price in an email uh
for any sort of service like this. What
sort of social proof do we have here?
I'm an AI. Okay. Any anything else? Have
you done any of this for anybody ever
before? No. Authority? Well, I'm
actually going to think less of you
since you're a robot. So, if you brand
yourself as a robot, you're not going to
do anywhere near as well as if you brand
yourself as a human. Just adds up.
Rapport. What sort of rapport? I mean,
like, you know, obviously we have the
attempts at rapport here, but it's so AI
bullshitty. It doesn't really make any
difference. We don't really have any
scarcity. And I'll tell you what,
explicitly calling yourself a robot does
not give me a shared sense of identity.
So, how do we make something like this
better? Well, first of all, we got to
just cut all the links. You can't have
links in cold emails, just to be clear.
Um, it's not recommended to have them
even like SMS. It's not really
recommended to have them even on like
LinkedIn messages. Um, although if you
do it low volume enough, you can you can
do okay. And the reason why is because
spammers and scammers use this, right?
Scammers and spammers will say, "Hey,
you know, your bank account needs a
topup. Uh, you're running low and you're
on overdraft. Click this link." And then
it takes you to like some page where you
put in your username and password and
they steal your credentials. So, Gmail
hates that. Outlook hates that. And in
general, you just don't want to link in
any sort of email. But you know, a
couple other things we could do here is
remove the email address as well. Okay.
And then not brand it like a freaking
robot.
So, hey Nick, so you came up with Maker
School by teaching automation. You
clearly understand what systems can do.
What about running your ops with a
instead of just teaching others about
automation? Full disclosure, I don't
think I'm going to make this email
great. I think I'm going to make it
okay, passible. Um, hey Nick. So, we
need some sort of like, you know,
introduction basically. Um, that also
personalizes.
Hey, Nick.
No, you guys are crushing it at Maker
School. By the way, I didn't hit 72K
month with Maker School. I had 72K month
with left click. So, I didn't even get
that fact right. Um,
maybe I'll just say, "No, you guys are
crushing it at left click. Nice job on
or like huge work on this 72K
big roll model of mine." Okay, so you
have something that you could scrape
from publicly available information.
They have any sort of revenue data. Huge
work on the 200k. Huge work on the 400k.
Huge work on the 1 mil.
I know. Uh I get you clearly understand
what systems can do. As somebody who has
been
scaling outbound teams with AI agents
recently, I believe there is some
value you're leaving on the table.
And I just implemented
and I just
biggest one being let's just say 250k a
month. I believe there is some value
leaving on the table. TLDDR
agent operating systems are extremely
high ROI. I don't believe you talk about
or
probably probably use them right now as
they're fairly new. In short,
there are OS
agent OSS out there
that spawn
specific agents in different domains and
do things autonomously
for you.
research, sales, marketing, finance,
content engineer, ops, brand strategy,
strategy,
etc.,
I want to build you a white label offer
where we
roll these out for your clients.
as mentioned very high ROI but
I'd work mostly on commission as
mentioned very high ROI and confident
this would crush
I am so
and I'm so confident this would crush
I'd guarantee you
at least 50k in added topline revenue
you
or I'd work for free until I got you you
this 100% attributable.
Any interest
could show you in around 15 minutes
can call today around noon or tomorrow
3:30 p.m. That's easier. or I'll send a
Google Meet link.
Thanks. And we're just going to pretend
this person's name is Grove and we're
going to delete the rest. Okay. Uh so
also the subject line is trash, so we
should probably redo that. Nick, you
scaled a 70k month with automation. So,
I'll just say Nick,
great job on the 72K month.
I'm going to add two exclamation points
here to make it seem like a real human
wrote that and made some mess up.
Nick,
maybe we'll do
Okay. Hey, Nick. I know you guys are
crushing at a left click. Huge work on
the 72K. Big role model of mine. I get
you clearly understand what systems can
do. As somebody who's been scaling in
outbound teams with a agents recently,
biggest one being 250k a month, social
proof, I believe there's some value
you're leaving on the table. TLDDR agent
operating systems are extremely high
ROI, I don't believe you talk about or
probably use them right now as they're
fairly new. In short, there are agent
OSS out there that spawn specific agents
and different domains and do things
autonomously for you that spawn
a whole org chart
that does things autonomously for you.
research, sales, marketing, finance,
content, engineering, op strategy, etc.
I want to build you a weight label offer
where we roll these out for your
clients. I'd work mostly on commission.
As mentioned, very high ROI and I'm so
confident this would crush a guarantee
at least 50k at topline revenue. I'd
work for free until I got you this 100%
attributable. Any interest? Could you
train in 15 minutes? Can call today
around noon or tomorrow 3:30 p.m. if
that's easier or I'll send you a Google
Meet link.
Say can send you a Google Meet link.
Thanks, Grove. All right. So, uh, a
couple things that probably stand out
here. There is a section where I say
mostly on commission. This is valuable
because it implies that you're the sort
of person that drives outcomes through
aligning incentives and then makes a ton
of personal upside based off of the
upside of the client, right? And in
practice, you don't actually need a lot
to say this. Like what you could do is
you could just add some sort of revenue
share component to your offer and as
long as you make 51% based off of that
then you could say you work mostly off
commission and then you could pitch them
using this get all the upside of like a
supposed potential
commission offer and then also reap in
all of the uh upside of
you know when you pitch them on the
other 49%.
This allows you to more or less double
dip. Um it also gives because I'm
offering 50k in added topline revenue or
work for free. That's a good offer
structure. Uh we have micro commitments
in place because it's a 15-minute call.
Obviously, it doesn't have to be 15
minutes. You could scale it up to as
long as it takes. Usually, if somebody's
really interested, they'll stay on the
call. You have social proof here because
you're associated with $250,000 a month
business. That's not very hard to do, by
the way. That's a $3 million a year
business. You know, your local mom and
pop flower shop might hit, I don't know,
half of that. Um authority, you know,
you're somebody that does work with AI
agents and it's a big company. Scarcity,
sorry, rapport. Uh you have an okay
line. This personalization I consider
kind of mid. It's like a seven out of
10. Um scarcity. Again, we're we're
suggesting that there's value they're
leaving on the table, although I wish we
could quantify that more. I believe
there's some value leaving on the table
is less valuable than I believe you're
leaving 10 to 20k a month on the table.
But that's just going to depend on how
much money they're making. What you
could do, and what I've done before, is
I've actually just like taken whatever
revenue signal I can find, and then I've
just like said, "Hey, I think I can make
you another 20k a month." Um I basically
scale the revenue based off of their
current revenue. So if they make 100K, I
say, "Hey, I can make you 20." If they
say if they make 200, I say, "Hey, I can
make you 40." And then I just trust in
my own abilities to be able to improve
revenue by at least 20%. Okay. Shared
identity, establishing common ground.
Yep, that's what the Agent stuff can do.
I've been scaling outbound teams to a
agents, too. Biggest one being 250k a
month. Um, you know, obviously I'm
establishing that. And then I think the
subject line's way better despite the
fact that we have two exclamation
points. Uh, keep in mind that like a
game here is
actually purposefully screwing up your
emails a little bit so they think it's a
person. Then the issue is this person
just sent me three more emails like back
to back and they're just all [__]
right? Like this is this is not going to
work. So, as crappy as it is, um, you
know, not that good. Okay. And then this
fell over here who I don't actually know
if it's real or not. I mean, like if I
was sending out campaigns like this, I
would 100% rate in the exact same way
that he did. Um, but uh, he's sending me
some pitch on some app. So basically
what it is is he's supposing that he's
trying to gather feedback for an app of
his, which is a good angle to take for
people that like, you know, like
especially creators and stuff like that.
They're high up and it's like, "Hey man,
I just really want your opinion. You
made a really big impact on my life."
And stuff like that. You could pitch
them like this with the feedback angle.
And then what you could do is on the
page, you could actually give them like
a really really sexy thing. Um like give
them an offer. By the way, I noticed X,
Y, and Z. Can I make you some money?
Well, because they've already micro
committed to giving some feedback. the
probability that they'll, you know,
actually work with you is so much
higher. Okay, so N alt for less
technical folks trying to gather
feedback. Hey Nick, I just refound some
of your content and have benefited from
your videos before.
I'm interviewing with a small AI team
building an automation platform for low
and non-technical folks even lower
bearer with an extra R entry than N.
Perfect for many of your followers.
Hoping to find some folks like yourself
in the space to test the product free
and answer my short survey, which will
hopefully help me get hired. It could
also be good content for your audience
or just a fun thing to try that's a bit
different from other platforms. Passing
the user research survey link here and
hope you're able to try it out, Ivan.
Then he actually sends me a link, right?
So, if I double click, you know, if I
click on this, this is obviously a
lovable app. I think this might actually
be a type form. That's so interesting. I
don't know if this is a type form or if
you just set this up, but anyway, then
he uses what is clearly anthropic
inspired design to pitch me and ask me
some questions. And uh yeah, like the
thing that's weird is he sent me this
from a Gmail, but um if he actually did
custom handwrite this, then this is a
very very poor icebreaker, very very
poor personalization. So kind of here,
like you know, obviously he's looking
for something that's a little different
from what other people are looking for.
And that's why I selected it cuz um I
wanted to show you guys just all the
different things you could use cold
emails for. But like what is he giving
me here? He's giving me nothing. What's
he doing micro commitment wise? Passing
a user research survey link. Well, do
you know how much time it would take me
to actually do this thing? I mean, like,
this is pretty long, right? Part one of
three. Terrifying. I have to add all
this freaking context here. I have to
enter so much information. I'll try the
platform in the middle. 15 to 20
minutes. Oh my god, that's terrifying.
So, no. I mean, like, I don't I don't
really think he's giving me anything
with that. He's just taking more time
away from me. Social proof, he he
downplays it. Small AI team. Why you
downplay it? He's working with other
people. I mean, some of these people
could be important. If he's working with
a team on AI stuff, odds are they
probably have some like worthwhile
experience where they worked with
somebody is blowing up right now, right?
Authority, none. Rapport, some of it. I
mean, like this is okay, but I want you
to know this is, as mentioned, quite a
poor personalization line. How about
scarcity? I'm not seeing any scarcity
here at all. Hey, it could be good
content for your audience. When people
pitch me stuff like this, it's literally
like, hey, could you do something for
me?
It's like, why would I do that for you?
This doesn't make any sense. Do you have
any idea how much money people are
willing to pay for videos like this?
like uh you know I get pitched $25,000
offers to like make YouTube videos on on
tools. Obviously I don't do it because I
don't want to like sell my reputation
like some you know person in a brothel a
couple hundred years ago. Um but the
point that I'm trying to make is like
this is a very valuable service, right?
Making videos on it. You could make
videos. It's like oh wow that's a really
simple and easy way to establish that we
do not have a shared identity because
you do not understand sort of what's
going on in my head. And then obviously
he's adding a link down below. So, I
mean, like, you know, this is like a
zero out of seven email. It's pretty
poorly written. Sorry, Ivan, but uh, you
know, we could definitely make it
better. So, I mean, honestly, I could
just copy and paste the same intro that
I've done for this one here, and this
would work really well. And you could
send this to any YouTuber for anything.
I'm sure tons of people probably will
after this video, so I don't know, maybe
you can't, but um, right now it works
really well. Uh, I'm interviewing with a
small AI team.
I'm work I'm interviewing with an AI
team.
I don't know a 10 mil plus AI team in
San Fran.
we or there I guess if you're
interviewing with them building
automation platform for non-load
technical folks even lower barrier entry
than NAD
but just as powerful
and I think I have something that's
that would improve the lives of many of
your followers. Okay, so what are we
doing now? Now we're actually aligning
incentives. I care about improving the
lives of my followers. I I presume most
people on YouTube Maybe they don't
actually, but you know, in my case, this
is something that's important to me. So,
that's me establishing a sense of shared
identity. Okay. And I think I have
something to improve the lives of many
of your followers. I'm hoping to find
some folks like yourself in the space to
test the product free and answer my
short survey, which will hopefully help
get me hired. So, let me just take a
look at this. Thousand a,000 in free
credits on the platform. So, what is
a,000 free credits in the platform?
Okay. 30 bucks, 50 bucks. I'm hoping to
find some folks like yourself in the
space. So, no.
I look up to you
and just,
you know, commissioned $50 in credits.
Would you be interested at all to test
the product
for around 5 minutes and let me know
what you think?
you would a be getting something
potentially useful for your YouTube
channel
really out of the box. You'd be a be
getting something potentially use for
your YouTube channel since it's
interesting and novel and b potentially
helping me get hard. Okay,
let me know it's called XYZ. And you
know if Ivan has to add a link
linking it here, then I would actually
add a link,
but I would do so really bluntly and
overtly.
I'd also thank for my time. Cool. All
right, cool. Letting you guys see this
now. The final product is, "Hey Nick,
love your channel, man. I've watched so
many of your vids. My GF says I listen
to you more than I listen to her. Lol.
I'm interviewing with a 10 mil plus AI
team in San Fran. They're building a
really out of the box automation
platform for no non/l low technical
folks. Lower bar entry than an end, but
just as powerful, and I think I have
something that would improve the lives
of many of your followers. I look up to
you and just commissioned you 50 bucks
in credits. Would you be interested at
all to test the product for 5 minutes?
Let me know what you think. You would a
be getting something potentially use for
a YouTube channel since it's interesting
and novel and b potentially helping me
getting get hired.
Let me know. Oh, it's called XYZ twin
and I'm linking it here. Thanks for the
time, Ivan. Do I think we could have
done better with this? For sure. But
what are we doing? We're making it
really clear what just happened. I gave
you something. Me giving you free access
to this app. Like that's something,
right? So, we are giving first. We have
micro commitments. Since I make this out
to be really, really small. And maybe
the first page is really small. By the
way, you know, if I'm doing this, I
would go back to the app and I would
eliminate this. And then I would also
instead if I have a time I'd say five
minutes up here. Okay. I wouldn't add
part one of three and stuff like that.
Just to be clear. I mean that's just
like unnecessary. You're just making it
way harder for yourself. So give first
micro commitments. I have social proof a
little bit with this 10 mil AI team.
This is kind of convoluted of an email
anyway cuz he's interviewing with them,
right? Kind of weird, right? Still um he
has a little bit of authority working
with an AI team even though 10 mil isn't
all that much for that industry. He's
building some rapport up top. You know,
there's no real scarcity. Although I'd
lose $50 in credits.
$50 in credits expires end of week.
Would he be interested at all to test
the product for 5 minutes? Cool. So,
this actually now solves all of these
problems. Then finally, shared identity.
You know, he's working with an AI team,
which is kind of cool. And obviously, he
watches a lot of my videos, so he
probably speaks my language and stuff.
You know, he's still including a link in
the email, which is unfortunately going
to tank his deliverability over time,
but maybe he's only sending this to 10
or 15 people. Who knows? Point that I'm
making is though, you can just copy and
paste this to 10 or 15 people and you
get 10x the results of what he just
sent. All right, this is a sponsorship
email and there are a lot of people that
could do really well here, but
unfortunately
like they just they can't really seem to
hack it. And it sucks because I was
actually thinking about like starting my
own sponsorship agency a while ago uh
because I'm like, man, I would crush in
this space. People here blow. Anyway, so
what are the problems here? Uh paid
collaboration. This is actually like a
pretty cool software platform, I'm
pretty sure. Right. Yeah, like I'm
pretty sure this is like a Yeah, this is
like a website builder and it's kind of
neat. So, yeah. Anyway, it's a cool
platform and stuff, but uh the way this
email was written is quite poor. Hi, no
personalization. We're looking to
partner with tech creators for short
form collaborations on Tik Tok real
shorts. Runnable is an AI platform that
turns a single prompt into finished
slides, websites, and videos in seconds.
We'd love to understand your pricing for
a three video deal. We're also offering
100% affiliate rev share for the first
two months in every paid signup. Best
team Runnable. So, I mean like is this
giving me anything first? I mean,
they're pitching first two months in
every paid sign up and stuff like that,
but they're not really giving me
anything, right? Micro commitments.
Anything here? Pricing for a three video
deal. I mean, like, um, kind of, I
guess, you know, just send me the
pricing and we'll talk. Social proof.
Uh, it's like mediocre social proof, I
would say. Obviously, this is like an
established company, but they could have
done way better. They could have said,
you know, we've raised XYZ dollars. Hey,
you know, we've made all this money.
Hey, we've had all this success. And I'm
pretty sure they have cuz uh to me
that's almost like a it seems like a
household name, right? Man, what a what
a name. So, no, they haven't done any
social proof. They could authority, they
missed out on that. Zero rapport.
Scarcity, none. Shared identity, none.
So, I mean, like this is pretty poor.
It's like a one out of seven, right? And
it sucks because whoever's running Team
Runnable is really just leaving the ball
on the table here. You guys could be
printing, folks. Printing. Let me show
you how I'd rewrite that email to a
creator. First of all, whatever they're
using to scrape here, just scrape the
creators and then their their names
because all of the creators that would
be interested in pitching this right now
literally just all use their names. It's
like Nick's Wrath, right? Um, not going
to name any other names, but yeah, you
know, it'd all be Nick.
So, anyway, you keep in mind if I'm
reading an email, okay, and then it's
from Runnable, you know, it's like a big
company, like I'd actually see it in the
teaser, right? So, hi Nick from
Runnable. We want to offer you money,
right? Like I mean the subject line
could literally be like instead of paid
collaboration, Runnable literally be
like,
"Hey, Nick, Runnable wants to send you
money." I mean, like that is that is
just way better way better of a pitch
than paid collaboration Runnable, right?
Anyway,
um, hi Nick,
we absolutely love your your channel.
So, no BS and straight to the point
that um I don't know, you're a common
lunch topic or something like that.
Let's say you're pitching people above
10,000 subscribers. That's an entirely
possible thing to say.
Um topic over lunch at the Runnable HQ.
Well,
I Okay. And it's better to use I
language than we language here. I would
love to partner with you. Cutting to the
chase, I would love to partner with you.
You may not know us if you if you didn't
know us already. We
an AI platform that turns a single
prompt into fully finished slides,
websites, and videos in seconds.
basically your all-in-one marketing
tool. Basically unall-in-one marketing
tool that stops you from having to jump
around 10 tools. I don't actually know
100% if that is the total value
proposition
on a Tik Tok real short
would be willing to offer generous
rates. If you don't know us already,
we're a platform K. Cool.
And we'd be extremely valuable for your
audience.
I hope this comes at a great time.
Would you let me know your pricing
for a three video deal? I'm also
I don't even know if I do this because
now I'm just giving away my hand on the
negotiation. So, I'd probably just not I
hope this comes in a Would you let me
know your pricing for a three video
deal?
If you're interested and keen, we can
sort out a collaboration before the end
of the week, assuming I'm sending early
on in the week. Best, you know, Peter at
Runnable. Okay. And maybe Peter is like
the marketing director. So, now it's,
"Hey, Nick, Runnable wants to send you
money. Hi, Nick. We're absolutely love
your channel." So, no BS is straight to
the point. You're a common topic over
lunch at the Runnable HQ. Lol. Cutting
to the chase, I would love to partner
with you on a Tik Tok reel/short. Would
be willing to offer generous rates if
you don't know us already. Where an ad
platform turns a signal prompt into
fully finished slides, websites, and
videos in seconds. Have raised, I don't
know, 10 mil, whatever amount they've
raised.
Have raised 10 mil. Basically, an
all-in-one marketing cool that stops you
from having to jump around 10 websites.
And in my earnest opinion, we'd be
extremely valuable for your audience.
Would you let me know your pricing for a
three video deal? If you're interested
and keen, we can send out a sort out a
collaboration for the end of the week.
Best Peter Runnable. I guarantee you
this probably has like a like a 2%
uptake. This over here would probably
have like a like a 5 to 10% uptake. And
if you're running any sort of like
affiliate agency or whatever, like give
give this a try. So, why does this work
so well? It gives because we are
pretty much the only thing we're missing
is some form of giving.
Um,
and probably the best and easiest way to
do this. If you're interested in Keen, I
can send you I don't know $250 in
Runnable credits today and we can sort
out a collaboration for the end of the
week. There we go. That That looks
great. So, now that we have that, what
are we doing? We're giving first with
the credits. We have micro commitments
because we're just asking for a deal. We
have social proof because we've raised
some money. We have authority as well.
We're a big company. We have rapport
since we're chatting about, you know,
speaking about them over lunch at the
Runnable HQ. I'm not seeing tons of
scarcity in my own campaign here. That's
usually one thing I forget, but that's
all right. And then shared identity. You
know, we have a shared sense of identity
because we're like an AI platform and
you know, this person's in the AI space.
And we're talking onetoone, right? It's
like mono here. It's Nick to Peter,
Peter to Nick. It's not, you know, the
the runnable team, right? So whether or
not you know you guys are working at
like a big SAS company or whatever, you
can apply the same sort of approach to
whatever outbound campaign, whether it's
like selling a service, whether it's
selling a physical product, whether it's
fundraising, whether it's looking to
partner with people via some sort of
sponsorship or affiliate, whether it's
selling thumbnails. I mean, like
hopefully you guys see it's all
basically variance the same stuff. All
right, Nick at 1 second copy from Peter
at morningside.info.
All right, so what's going on here with
this? Well, there are a couple things.
The first is uh I don't actually run
this company anymore. We had to shut
down.
So, that's obviously a red flag. Second
is seems to be like a lot of weird
spaces here. H. Third, he didn't
actually name the uh the company, right?
The C here is capitalized. I'm not sure
where that came from. Who knows? Maybe
he meant to do that. And then fourth,
Nick at 1 second copy. Hi, Nick. Are you
in charge of marketing/growth and one
second copy? We support companies refine
their value proposition, align marketing
and sales handoffs, and put simple
funnel attribution in place, CAC, LTV,
conversion drop offs for teams like one
second copy. This often means improved
conversions, shorter sales times
timelines, and a clear end toend funnel
through better sales and marketing
alignment. Open a quick 50-minute chat.
Thank you, Peter. I'm just going to cut
this a little shorter because I don't
like how it's all over the place. He
also has a very illustrious email
signature you guys can't see. Kind
regards, Peter Beller, the managing
partner at Morningside Adviserss. I'd
probably just go thanks Peter
personally, but hey, who knows? Maybe
Morningside Advisors mean something
different to them than it does to me.
Uh, all right. So, first of all, hi
Nick. Are you in charge of marketing
growth at one second copy? I understand
why he's doing this. He's doing this
because it's like a very easy pitch to
make. Um, are you in charge of are you
the decision maker of a thing? And then
I have a very easy, if you think about
it, micro commitment because he could
just say yes and then it's like yes, I
am. Why? Big issue. This doesn't make
any sense. We were support companies
refine their value proposition. What
what does that even mean? I was
squinting at it earlier if you guys
couldn't tell. Uh and it's just cuz it
doesn't make any sense. So, we support
companies in refining their value
proposition. And also, what is that? We
support companies in refining their
value proposition. That sucks. Also, why
is it a Wii and not an I? I want to talk
to you, Peter. I don't want to talk to
your company. So, Hine, are you in
charge of marketing growth at One Second
Company? We could we could take this
angle. Um, you know, it's just not going
to sound as good, and that's okay. Why
why don't we just ask that? Hi Nick, are
you in charge of marketing/growth at 1
second copy? Rather than
overcomplexifying the hell out of all
this stuff, I'm just going to say I
build
we build sales systems. I've been
following you guys for a while.
I build sales systems for five mil to
$10 million a year
marketing companies.
To make a long story short, it's
salesfunnels
attribution.
I think my chicken's going bad. One sec.
Right. So, this is currently very
complicated. We support companies refine
their value proposition, align
marketing, and sales handoffs, and put
simple funnel attribution in place.
Despite the fact that as a marketing
company, I will know what this means.
I'm writing it basically like PhD level
for like a grade three audience.
So, first thing I'm going to do is I'm
just going to add some personalization.
Uh,
love
your design, by the way.
Short, simple. Is it going to convince
100% of people? No, it's going to
convince like 50% of people. Yeah, which
is much better than what we currently
have. Love your design, BTW.
um
reaching out because
we help a very similar company right now
and ideally it would be a some sort of
marketing company XYZ marketing 5 mill a
year
with their funnel in the last three
weeks we've generated
around $50,000
I do this primarily because I help a
very similar company in last week's
we've generated. Cool. I do this
primarily via
um simple funnel attribution.
Basically, I help you figure out your
CAC conversion drop offs and then fix
the leaks.
I am
given how similar you are to my past
clientele. I'm very confident we could
help you. Given how similar you are to
our past clientele, I'm very confident
we could help you guys.
So much so that I'd be
willing to guarantee you
10K in the next 60 days
or you don't pay. I know this is the
first you're hearing of me and I'm
cognizant you may not be entirely
comfortable
the prospect of working with a stranger
but I've done enough research to know
when there's an opportunity
and given the size of your funnel I
think I could crush it for you totally
hands off no strength things.
We'd only need to talk once
for around
15 to 30 minutes
and I'd take care of everything else in
the background. I don't know how the
hell I'd actually fulfill this offer. To
be clear, I don't even know what their
offer is though, so hopefully you'll
forgive me for having some latitude.
Let me know if this
makes any sense at all and I c and I'll
give you a ring
whenever is convenient today or tomorrow
3:30 p.m. question mark and I'll just
say thanks Peter. All right, so what's
going on here? This email is obviously
way longer, right? And um a pattern here
has been that I've made most of these
emails a little bit longer. And I want
you to know it's not because I actually
think you need long emails. It's just
the way that these emails are written
before I do the change is they're
extraordinarily vague. They're they
don't have any like concrete offer. And
so if I am to rejig the email without
just writing a whole entirely new one
myself, um I have to maintain components
that they have pre-existing and then I
also have to write my own. But um in in
these guys cases, I think I think it's
actually necessary because it sounds
like they have a pretty complicated
offer. Well, it doesn't even sound like
they have an offer. I mean, they're just
saying open to a 50-minute chat. But it
sounds like they have a pretty
complicated thing. And um I feel like
it's when you sell something really
complicated, you have to like really
work the customer up to something like
this. You have to build a lot of value.
So now the email goes, "Hey Nick, are
you in charge of marketing/growth at
1second copy? Love your design by the
way. Reaching out cuz I help a very
similar company right now, XYZ
Marketing, at 5 million a year with
their funnel. In the last 3 weeks, you
generally
via simple funnel attribution.
Basically, I help you figure out your
CAC LTV, conversion drop offs, then fix
the leaks. Given how similar you are to
our past clients, I'm very confident we
could help you guys. So much so that I'd
be willing to guarantee you 10K in the
next 60 days or you don't pay. Know this
is the first you're hearing of me and
I'm cognizant you may not be entirely
comfortable with the prospect of working
with a stranger, but I've done enough
research knowing there's an opportunity.
And given the size of your funnel, I
think I could crush it for you. Totally
hands-off, no strings. We only need to
talk once for 15 to 30 minutes and I
take care of everything else in the
background.
Let me know if this makes any sense at
all and I'll give you a ring whenever is
convenient today or tomorrow. 3:30 p.m.
So, you know, we're taking this super
kind of Spartan thing with just the
name, right? And then we're actually
adding a lot more context. We're making
a little bit more personalized. So,
how's the scoring? I mean, like, you
know, technically we do give because
we're willing to do the offer. Uh,
technically we have some small micro
commitments where you only need to talk
once and that's it. We have a little bit
of social proof with the 50k and then we
also have the authority with the
marketing company we work with. The
rapport is very minimal here, right? I
mean, this is just a question and then
love your design, by the way. But
campaigns like this have worked and I've
done them before. Um, we're lacking the
scarcity here, but we do have a sense of
shared identity because, you know, we've
generated around $50,000.
So, I'm going to give this rewrite like
I don't know, 7 out of 10 realistically.
This next email was hilarious because I
have no idea what it what it what it
even means to say, but um you will find
a tremendous number of emails just like
this out there
nowadays, unfortunately, cuz people just
don't get like the the idea of cold. Um,
Nick, slow pacing kills retention before
your best content even lands. Still
happy to show you what a tighter cut
looks like. Free on your next video.
Interested. Best read on. And now that
I'm actually thinking about it, this
person's probably sent me another email
before, which is probably why it reads
like such trash. So, why don't I just
search this up? Okay. Yeah. And I I did
find the original emails. This one here.
Most creators lose views in the first 60
seconds. Um, literally the title is just
collaboration idea. So, Nick, most
creators lose viewers in the first 60
seconds. Not because the content's bad,
but because pacing is off. I fix that.
Tighter edits, better emphasis, more
watchable videos. Want a free sample
edit of your next video? Best read on.
What are we doing here? It's super
short. That's nice. Short's nice. Um,
it's given some free sample edit. Nice.
A micro commitment. Well, I don't know.
Want a free sample edit for my next
video. What do I have to do in order to
get this?
They're not really making it clear. We
don't even have a time constraint or
anything. I don't think we have a micro
commitment here. We actually have kind
of a scary commitment. Social proof, no.
Authority, no. Rapport, no. Scarcity,
no. shared identity. No. So, all we
really have first is the fact that they
give and that's okay. All right. And
then I'm not a fan of the subject line
versus a collaboration idea. Not a fan.
I mean like collaboration idea. Let me
collab with you or something might be a
little better. Why? Because it just
sounds more human. And if you're sending
to somebody that like has a fair amount
going on, let me collab with you is
totally a fair thing that some people
may say. Another big issue here is
everything's just w like it's like three
lines in a row. You want some
breathability. And then another one is
um like why is this capitalized? And
it's on the same line, but also most
creators lose viewers in the first 60
seconds. That's vague and that's
general. I don't want you to give me an
email newsletter that just is like most
creators lose viewers in the first 60
seconds. Not because the content is bad,
but because the pacing is off. That
reads like a TV commercial. I don't want
a TV commercial. I want you talking to
me.
So, Nick, you are losing a tremendous
number of viewers in the first 60
seconds right now.
Let me fix your watch time. Nick, you're
losing a tremendous number of viewers in
the first 60 seconds right now. Not
because your content is bad. It's not.
It rocks. But because your pacing is
off.
Will you let me fix that for you?
I do XYZ
X for
Y,
you know, five mil subs.
And can one shot deliver
tighter edits,
a tightly edited 60-second sequence for
you?
no strings,
but I'd be happy to give you a free
sample edit
in around 48 hours. Just send me the raw
the raw footage in a Google
Drive link with sharing on and I'll
with sharing on. Okay. Okay, cool. So,
this rewrite isn't perfect.
Happy to do this for you anytime this
week. Okay, this email isn't perfect,
but um let me fix your watch time. Nick,
you're losing a tremendous number of
viewers in the first 60 seconds right
now. Not because your content is bad.
It's not. It rocks, but because your
pacing is off. Will you let me fix that
for you? I do editing, you know. I edit
for insert big name here at 5 mil subs
and can one shot deliver a tightly
edited 60-second sequence for you that
is as good or even better. No strings,
but I'd happy but I'd be happy to give
you a free sample edit around 48 hours.
Just send me the raw footage in a Google
Drive link with sharing on. Happy to do
this for you anytime this week. Best
redo on. So, we're giving we have micro
commitments. Just send me the raw
footage. We're actually making it clear.
We have a time constraint as well. We
have social proof. We have some
authority. We're not building a lot of
rapport. Okay, aside from this line. So,
I'd say like a five there. Scarcity is
handled by happy to do this for you
anytime this week. Then we also have uh
some sense of shared identity and so far
that I understand how this works. I also
understand you know some YouTube
terminology and stuff like that. It's
not perfect. Maybe a.5 on on this end as
well. Uh but still I mean you know for a
really short punchy email this is about
as good as you can get. Okay. And that
takes me to probably like the big daddy
one from um this fella Marissa or chick
Marissa Concaid. I thought this was
actually pretty good. And we also have a
loom embed which I wanted to bring some
attention to. You can do loom embeds and
stuff like that. And uh just show you
guys what that looks like because the
format's a little bit different. So, I
don't think I can actually Hold on a
sec. Can I embed the loom? No, I can't
embed the loom. It's kind of annoying.
All right. Well, anyway, why don't we
just leave this link in here and then um
we'll worry about that after. But, uh
yeah, um what it's saying is high
stacked podcast, right? So, it's using,
you know, stacked podcast, not the
actual name. And that's unfortunate
because you just know like if this
wasn't bad um I might have actually
thought this was a real one and I might
have thought this was a real one because
of this loom embed with like a person's
face and then you know ultimately my
YouTube channel. This is podcast I run
with Jack. So high stacked podcast. I
just watched your video about the AI
crisis here and felt like I had to send
this. I'm actually sending this on
behalf of fellow creator at ZTH
training. We got about a million
followers on multiple platforms and our
founder Harris is now helping other
creators along with our team. We're
confident we could help you make
additional rev consistently by launching
or scaling your online community or
coaching program and growing your
audience by 15 to 30k new people. I know
it's a bold claim, but we've gotten
proven results. We got millions of
followers, made over seven figures from
social media ourselves. Our other
co-founder personally made a short video
for you to say hello and go through how
it works and ask me to send this message
to you. Right. We've helped a multitude
of other creators just like yourself and
have multiple case studies. We're
reaching out because we think we can do
the same for you and you have a ton of
value to provide your audience. And we
do all of this on a complete
resultsbased model, which means if you
don't profit, we don't profit. You
cannot lose. That's how much we believe
in what we do. Would love to understand
more about your goals with the channel
for the future. Are you opposed to
having a quick chat in the coming days
so we could talk through this? Okay, so
I mean like this could have been
freaking awesome. But a few things here
are really crushing it. Okay, so why
don't I start by rating this? Um, does
this give first? No, there's nothing
here that gives. It's just a call. Are
there micro commitments? No, we're just
saying quick chat. Quick chat here is so
vague in general. It could be 30
minutes, could be an hour. If anything,
you're taking my time.
Um, social proof. Uh they have tons of
social proof and they have tons of
authority as well. Where's their
rapport? Uh well, they kind of screwed
that up. I mean, it could have been
pretty good that they screwed that up.
So, they don't have any of that. Um they
don't have any scarcity and then they
don't have any shared identity as well.
Or actually, maybe they do have shared
identity. They're trying to go for
fellow creator, but I'll be honest,
they're they're just they're trying so
many different things. It's not working.
So, I'm sending this on behalf of fellow
creator. So, I'm not actually this
person. Also, we have a founder named
Harris. Also, our other coner asked me
to send this message to you and they
also made you a short video. I mean,
there's like five million things going
on here, right? So, this is a good
example of an email that's too long as
opposed to too short. And if they uh
touch it up a little bit, it would
perform significantly better. So, let me
show you how I do this. So, first of
all, obviously, we need to fix this. Um,
you know, my recommendation is just like
don't use naive data scraping techniques
like this
unless you are, you know, okay to lose a
big chunk of the time. But um you know
really behind
just watched your vid on the AI crisis
and felt like I had to send this to you.
Okay, long story short, we've got about
we've got around 1 million followers on
multiple platforms.
I work with podcasts
platform. I work with podcasts like you
very often. Your stuff is fantastic.
I am extremely confident I could help
you make additional revenue
consistently.
I and my team could help you make
additional revenue consistently by
launching or scaling your online
community.
an online community program group.
I could also or we could also very
easily grow your audience by 15 to 30k
new people.
I know it's a bold claim,
but we've got proven results.
many millions of followers and around
seven figures
from social media ourselves in the last
I don't know month year
and I think what I'd do is instead of
leaving my offer all the way down to the
bottom I'd probably stick it up at the
top cuz it's going to be pretty long
right so okay so long story short you
got 1 million followers multiple work
with podcast like you very often
I want to give you 15 to 30k Okay.
Followers.
And I do this on an entirely results
basis.
Okay. I think I'd probably do this
basis
plus
10 to 20K a month. And I do this for you
on entirely results basis. I'm extremely
confident I and my team could help you
do this by a marketing your
pod more effectively and b la la la la
la la la la la la la la la la la la la
la la la la la la la la la launching
growing an online community program
group. Better to use the word growing
than launching or scaling because it's
clear when you use launching or scaling,
you're trying to account for all
possible options and this is a template.
I know it's a bold claim.
Our other co-owner personally made you
My co-founder personally made you a
short vid.
Personally made you a short vid to say
hello.
Hello. Let's say to review stacks a bit
and say hello. Linking it here for
convenience.
And I'm going to link it. Then down over
here, I'll just cut all the stuff out.
Cool.
Are you opposed to having a quick chat
in the coming days? So, what I'm going
to do, are you opposed to having a quick
I'm just going to say 15 to 30 men chat
in the next
few days so we could talk through this.
I know you're on ET time. Can give you a
ring at 3:30 p.m. today or tomorrow.
Thanks, Peter. All right. So before, you
know, 3 million miles long and the offer
is all over the place. After, hi neck,
just watched your vid on the AI crisis.
Felt like I had to send this to you.
Okay, long story short, we got 1 million
followers on multiple platforms and I
work with podcasts like you very often.
Your stuff is fantastic, right? This is
supposed justification for why I'm
reaching out. I want to give you 15 to
30k followers plus 10 to 20k a month. I
do this for you on entirely results
basis. I'm extremely confident I and my
team could help do this by a marketing
your pod more effectively pod instead of
podcast and b growing an online
community program group. I know it's a
bold claim but we got proven results
many millions of followers and around
seven figs from social media ourselves
in the last year. My co-founder
personally made you a short vid to
review stacked a bit and say hello
linking it here for convenience. Are you
opposed to having a 15 to 30 minute chat
in the next few days so we can talk
through this? I know you're on ET time.
Can you give you a ring at 3:30 p.m.
today or tomorrow? Thanks Peter. So what
is this doing? It's giving. We have
small micro commitments. We have lots of
social proof and authority. We're
building rapport. Now, we have uh not a
lot of scarcity, but we do have a fair
amount of shared identity. The way you'd
add scarcity to something like this is
you'd probably mention how you're, I
don't know, currently in talks with a
few other podcasts or something like
that. And because this is a very long
email, that's actually somewhat
believable. By the time somebody makes
it down here, they're like, "Okay, I
mean, this person's obviously done a lot
of work with the video." Alternatively,
you might actually include that section
there offhand as a comment in the video.
um probability that somebody watches the
video is lower than the probability that
somebody reads the email, but it's still
pretty good. Okay, cool. Hopefully you
guys have learned everything to do with
just how to take a shitty email and then
turn it into a better one. As you see,
we employ the four-step framework
basically every time. Um, the rewrites
on net are a little bit longer, but they
also make use of generalized statements
and cold reading to really like imply or
explicitly state that like we know who
you are and I've been following you for
a while and I like you and I I have
pretty established relationship with
you. We're knocking literally all of
these out of the park and we're doing it
across a variety of different offers,
services, um, industries and so on and
so forth. So, that makes me pretty happy
because we've actually made it through
most of the course already. All we need
to do now is chat about specific
platforms, then do subject lines, full
obsiterations, talk a little bit about
AI before discussing advanced outbound
techniques.
All right, so next up, I want to talk
about all of the different types of cold
outbound and how every platform will
vary just a little bit compared to the
other. Obviously, I've been doing a lot
of cold email so far, and cold email is
great. So, we're going to start out with
that, and I'll enumerate all the
different levers you could pull. Once
I'm done with that, I also want to cover
things like LinkedIn. I want to cover X.
I want to cover Instagrams. So I want to
cover iMes and SMSs and so on and so
forth. Okay? And in that way you guys
will have full granular insights into
how to optimize messaging across all of
these. So you can take the four-step
copyrightiting framework that I've shown
you and you can squeeze it either into
significantly fewer characters or expand
it into significantly more. Okay. So
first thing here is I have uh you know
like some cold emails that people have
sent me and I was just looking at one by
this fellow Malik fella or chick. Not
entirely sure. And literally just just
putting this first and foremost, I just
want you guys to take a look at what
we're seeing here.
If you were like a robot and you were
tasked with optimizing my cold email and
if I were Malik Smoon, what are all of
the different parts of the email at
every part along the customer journey
that you would look at?
So the very first thing that you would
look at if we are being pragmatic and we
are is their name. And so their name is
a signal, okay,
that you can use and take advantage of.
It's a space, I think up to like 20
characters or something like that. As
you see, some other people's names are a
little bit longer. This gives off some
information to me as somebody that is
considering communicating or accepting
some sort of outreach with this person.
You know, it might communicate to me
where they're from. It might communicate
to me their business name or their email
address, right? Might communicate
whether the sort of person that likes
signing off just as Malik or Malik Smoon
first name last. You know, there are
variety of different strategies and
thoughts here. In general, I recommend
just writing your first name and your
last name. If it's something that you
think would be kind of scary or
intimidating the person, then obviously
find a way to like reject it. But this
is literally the first piece of
information that people will look at.
And so what I'm going to do, okay, is I
will make a comprehensive document here
called all of the different things you
can optimize for your outbound. And I
want you to know that I optimize all of
these things. I don't just do the actual
body of the email. I do everything.
Okay? So we'll start with cold emails.
And as mentioned, the very first thing
you can optimize right off the bat, not
even looking at at at anything else
here, is the name of the sender, Sander.
and it's around 20 characters. Okay, so
the very first thing you can do is you
can optimize the name of the person. I
personally recommend always adding like
a full name or something like that.
Moving over to the right here, the next
major thing you can optimize, as you
guys can see, is the actual subject line
of the email. So, variety of different
strategies here. As you see, event in
maker school, that was a piece of
outreach. Quick collab, that was a piece
of outreach. This is a newsletter that I
sent, the simplest way to scale past
your income ceiling. There are a variety
of different like ways and strategies
and things you can do here. Hopefully,
I've shown you that typically the key
with a subject line is writing something
that a friend might have sent you,
something that was like informal,
something that's somewhat casual, and
something that like inspires a little
bit of plausible deniability. Hey, do I
know this guy? I'm like, hm, I feel like
I've heard of that name before, right?
Um, and then finding a way to write it
in such a way that it also makes sense
with the rest of this, which uh which
I'll cover in a second. Okay, so first
you have uh the ability to change the
name of the sender. You have the ability
to change. I don't know why the hell
that's so different. I don't like that
at all. Let's do that. The subject. Oh,
I don't like that either. I don't know
what's going on with my sizing here.
Okay. All right. I see. I'm being kind
of silly. I wrote them all as as heading
number threes. Anyway, um name of the
sender, the subject line, and I' I'd
give you like a character cut off here,
but the subject line and the teaser
actually interact. Um and then the
teaser. So, this is the subject line
over here, everything in white. this
over here on the right which is sort of
in like darker white or gray um is the
first I don't know like combined it's
something like 150 characters or so this
also changes depending on which um
specific platform that you're on but you
know in my case quick ID in your daily
strategy content hey Nick sorry you're
shifting to sharing daily strategy and
the way you just think out loud wild dot
dot dot this is being truncated at
approximately 150 characters so what
that means is combined you know if your
subject line is shorter you'll have more
room in your teaser you know if your
subject line is a lot longer you'll have
less room in your teaser. It also means
things like this, okay, tend to impact
um how much of the email that you
actually end up reading. And so this is
sort of like an automatic thing that
email platforms will typically put in.
It's like a front matter for the email
on Tuesday, March 17th, on Tuesday 17th
of March and so on and so forth. If you
can find ways to eliminate all
unnecessary characters, then you can
usually add significantly more uh text
and and stuff like that. I think in this
case, this is just what occurs when your
email is short. So, at minimum, you
typically want your email to be at least
150 characters or so. If it's shorter
than that, you're just going to end up
with a bunch of blank white space, which
looks silly. Okay, so the teaser. So,
this subject line is probably going to
be somewhere between like 30 to 50
characters. This over here is going to
be somewhere between like 50 to 100
characters. Any unused space in your
subject line and teaser gets filled with
uh metadata, which is just like the time
information on Tuesday, March 19th,
whatever. So, what that means is there's
no reason not to send the entire total
number of characters. I wrote 148 down
here. That's how much I uh test it on
for that top email, but I want you to
know that like sometimes that'll vary.
You know, if people zoom in and zoom out
and stuff like that, obviously that's
different. On average, um people are
going to have about the same screen size
as me. Um so, yeah, you you'll be
looking somewhere around 148 150
characters. So, that is just before you
even click into the freaking email
itself. That's all the different things
you can optimize for. Most people only
know one of those and that's the subject
line. But you can get really creative
and you can use the subject line in
conjunction with the teaser and the name
of the sender to make some really cool
campaigns um happen. Okay. Anyway, now
once I click on this email, we see a lot
of the same information restated. Okay.
But then we have some more as well. So
what do we have up here at the top? We
obviously have the subject line, right?
Also, what do we have underneath? We
have the name. But then if you think
about it, we have something new. We
actually have the email address as well.
So, that's one. Over here, we have the
profile pick. That's two. People will
judge you based off of all of this.
There's obviously the recency of the
email. Okay, I'm not going to add that
as three, but it is technically three.
Um, whether they're internal or external
to your organization. You typically
don't have control over that, but I'm,
you know, that's another point to be
made. So, just going back to our list
here, you have your profile picture.
Okay.
You also have the email address of the
sender. And these are all things that
just again they give me information
about you. And these are things that
people are either consciously or
subconsciously always evaluating all of
your emails on before we even get into
the copy. Notice that we've literally
looked at like five or or six different
things now. Obviously on top of that you
have the email body itself. Right?
And the reason why I'm enumerating all
this stuff is just because you know I
want you to be able to very granularly
improve the quality of your cold emails
um as well as all other outreach. And
because you'll notice that cold emails
have different parameters here versus
something like let's say LinkedIn
messages which I'm going to talk with
you about um in a moment. And so you
know the strategy on outbound in general
when you're writing messages to try and
convince strangers to give you money is
you'll make use of those six or seven um
psychological principles and then you'll
convert that into like a good strong
piece of outbound with those four rules.
And then what you'll do is you'll just
like you'll basically syndicate it. So
that same piece of copy will look a
specific way for cold email, but it'll
look a slightly different way for um SMS
and it'll look a slightly different way
for LinkedIn. And what you're doing is
you're just massaging it into the
various shapes of all of these different
platforms. All right, so that is cold
email in a nutshell. And I want you guys
to know if you're ever curious or you
don't know how to make your cold emails
pop or whatever and you've been banging
your head against the wall just
wondering what the hell you could do,
you know, just go top to bottom through
this. Ask yourself, is this the best
name? Is this the best subject line? Is
this the best teaser? Is this the best
profile picture? Is this the best email
address? Is this the best email body?
And as long as you have all of that
information, okay, then you can do a
pretty good job. Even if you're not
necessarily good at any one individual
one of these, if you just combine the
entire thing into like a nice coherent
package, then for all intents and
purposes, you're probably going to be
all right. Okay. Next up, how about
LinkedIn? Obviously, people are going to
be evaluating you on slightly different
things on LinkedIn. Let me give you guys
an actual look at what that looks like.
So here for just for all intents and
purposes, I'm um I'm in my other inbox
as opposed to my focused one. I just
have tons of people like responding to
my giveaways and stuff here. And uh
being in this inbox to begin with is
kind of an issue, right? Like uh you
know, this one was sent like eight years
ago. I have literally haven't looked it
in eight whole years, nine years, I
guess. So the goal is just not to be
here at all to be clear. But anyway, if
you're writing some sort of outbound
like this fellow Jordan is, what are
some things that I'm immediately
evaluating on? And actually before I
even get in there, okay, let me just
give this um give this a click and then
we can look at Jordan's top to bottom.
Literally before I even get in there,
okay, what am I evaluating him on? I'm
evaluating him on the profile picture
itself. And so that is sort of priority
number one.
Then I'm evaluating him on his name,
which appears twice. We have the first
name. You'll notice that the longer the
first name is, the more characters it
takes of their teaser. You notice how
Jordan over here might be three
characters and this ends up uh uh
closing right around here. Well, if his
name was four characters, Nicholas would
have been pushed back. And so the
shorter the first init the first part of
your name, the bigger the ROI basically
for your LinkedIn teaser, which means
you can actually fit more in there.
Okay. Now, just out of curiosity, how
many characters is this? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
space 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21. This is going to be somewhere
between 53 to maybe 55 characters, I'd
imagine. Uh because not every one of
these characters takes up the exact same
amount of space. And this is likely
gated by pixels. So what that means is
you have uh the teaser which is
somewhere between 50 to maybe 55 cars.
Okay, so these are all things again that
like people just they they just don't
realize are all factors that I am going
to be taking into account as I evaluate
you. Now, what are some highle rules?
Don't waste this teaser space and make
sure your profile pick just shows you
ideally smiling in nice lighting like
this Jordan guy does. Despite the fact
that this guy's in my other mailbox and
I haven't looked at his message in like,
you know, 9 years or whatever. Kudos to
whoever helped you design your profile
picture or just yourself, Jordan,
because this blue background around the
outside with with the white um backdrop
and then your head like this stands out
and this looks really professional.
Contrast that with this lady Sharon here
who's, you know, kind of a little bit
more drawn back and there isn't a lot of
like difference between her foreground
and then background. Okay, so literally
before I've even clicked on this, here
are all of the things that uh that I've
considered and applied.
Once I've clicked on it though, you
notice that this window changes
significantly. Now we have way more
context. Okay. And so let's actually
just go into all that context. Let me
just zoom in here and then see what we
have access to. The very first thing
that we see is obviously their name,
which we've already kind of looked at
before. So that's not new information.
The second thing we see though is we see
their title. And so their title is
actually a piece of information that
affects my uh perception of who this
person is. And so as you can see here,
you got fair number of characters. Um, 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 4 5 6 7 8 30.
And it looks to me like you're going to
have something like 50 to 60 or so
characters on the title as well. So in
here, we'll say the title,
the job title, and that's going to be
somewhere between like maybe 50 to 60
characters as well. Okay. Immediately
underneath all of this, we have the
profile picture again. Then we have
them. And then as you'll notice, we have
in brackets some sort of badge. So if
they have a LinkedIn premium, this will
be gold. So what does that logically
mean? If you want to maximize the
outreach that you are sending, you will
want a badge like that. Why? It just
makes you stand out. And so we'll have a
LinkedIn premium badge. If I go back
over here and actually give Jordan a
click, you see this HubSpot elite
partner first. This is because he's
basically part of HubSpot's elite
solutions partner program. And because
of this, he uses this as sort of like a
piece of of credential. It just makes
him stand out more. Keep in mind, this
is just like this is more authority
stuff. Um, oh, cool. He's in Vancouver.
That's nice. All right. So, then he has
basically what I'm going to call
credential. And I don't know how many
characters this is. I feel like this is
going to vary. Um, I think he could
probably have more if he wanted to, but
I'm not going to put that in there. And
then obviously he has the time of the
message and then the uh body itself. So
over here is going to be body. Okay. and
we'll just say message body and then
we'll say his credentials. So this looks
pretty good to me. I mean nice job on
this message Jordan. Um just evaluating
it at its merits. Thanks for connecting.
So clearly it's some connect message
driven flow. We find our clients the top
performing sales management candidates
across NA. Best of all we give you a
guarantee on placements of the 12 full
months. Um you know I'm not really a big
fan of how he pitched all this stuff. I
am seeing he has a masters of science.
I'm wondering if he could have put his
masters of science somewhere around
here. Typically speaking, people with
master's degrees and stuff like that are
just taken more seriously than people
that don't have them. And that takes us
to X. So, I don't actually use X
anymore, but I know a lot of people are
sending uh DMs and stuff like that with
this. So, I'm just going to create some
BS passcode. And then I'm just going to
go onto another account, then send
myself a DM just so I can see what that
looks like. Okay. And it actually looks
like I have an account set up here.
That's hilarious. Um anyway, so what
I'll do, I'll go to chat. And
apparently, I sent a message to this guy
on this X account from like God knows
how many years ago. But I really like
this fell's music. So, big shout out to
uh to Away. Anyway, I just want to send
this now to myself. So, this is going to
be Nick Sarif. And it doesn't look like
I can send to him. Why is this? I don't
really know. Do I need to follow myself
or something? Okay. And I'm just going
to say, "Hey, Nick, what's going on my
brother from another mother?" Okay,
cool. We just sent him a message. Uh
probably from the same mother. And as
you can see here, now we have this um
new thing open up. Wow, that is so funny
that I that I wrote that. Uh but
basically, you know, when somebody
follows you, obviously you're going to
get a notification, but then you have
the chat. So, what happens is when you
click on the chat immediately, okay,
just like we had with LinkedIn, kind of
the very first thing we're realistically
seeing is we're going to see the profile
pick. After that, as you guys could see,
we have the full name, and that on X
might not actually be the full name
because not a lot of people use their
full names. So, I think that's worth um
keeping uh in mind. After that, we have
a little teaser. And you notice the
teaser is significantly shorter than a
fulllength teaser on LinkedIn. If I had
to count this, and I will, that'll be 5,
10,
15,
20, probably somewhere around 45 to 50
or so. So then we have the teaser and
that's somewhere between 40 to 55 cares.
And then you also have obviously the
time of the message and then the fact
that you haven't clicked on it yet. But
that mark on red stuff is sort of the
same on all platforms. So I'm just going
to take it for granted. Take it for
granted. I'm going to take it as a
given. Zooming a little bit in here now,
you get some more information you didn't
get before. Obviously, you have the
profile picture, the full name, then you
get the full name again, and then over
here, which is interesting, which is
new, is you get their tag. And so, if
they have a silly tag, a tag that
doesn't actually make much sense to you,
then obviously that tag is going to be
discordant with the rest of their
outreach, right? In this case, Nick
Wells Wells, I don't know, it just
doesn't look as legit. I also don't have
a profile picture, obviously, since this
is an old ass thing. But yeah, so I'm
just going to say your X tag/handle.
And then you also have the join date,
which is pretty important. So if
somebody is spinning up a bunch of these
accounts to send a bunch of DMs to
people like over and over and over
again, obviously you'll know because
it'll say joined literally five freaking
minutes ago. And uh I just, you know, I
think that's a problem. Obviously,
you're going to want like aged X
accounts if you're going to want to
scale this sort of stuff. Okay. After
that, you obviously have the message
body itself. And um yeah, the message
body can go I don't know how long. So
why don't we just test this out?
Let's see what happens when we send
I don't know, 30 of these or so.
Sending all this over. This is pretty
long, right?
It looks like we get the entire chat all
literally within the body. So, I don't
know how many characters this is, but
all of that is not um truncated
whatsoever. You also have the ability to
send gifts. Gifts can be pretty cool.
Although, I think they have to be
verified followers. I feel like if
they're in your request, you can't send
a gift. Um so, keep that in mind.
That's kind of funny considering all the
BS that I just sent him. Um, and yeah, I
mean like that's most of the information
in general. Um, messages on X tend to be
significantly more casual and more
formal. Uh, especially versus like
LinkedIn, but LinkedIn and email tend to
be pretty similar in tone of voice. You
know, like a lot of people pretend
they're like big corporate bigs on on
LinkedIn and that's not necessarily
always. So, uh, you can break out of
that sort of pattern interrupt by
sending um, you know, shorter, more
informal casual DMs. But generally, you
know, you don't want to really offend uh
I don't know, some corporate person on
LinkedIn versus on X, like it's sort of
given and taken for granted that you'll
write probably in lowercase. You'll
probably make use of little emojis here
or there. You'll be a little bit more
sarcastic and funny and so on. Okay. And
that takes me to Instagram. Um just
heading over here to the messages tab.
As you can see here, we got tons of
different messages and that's cuz the
account is uh massive. Unfortunately, I
also don't know how to stop that from
popping up.
Okay. So, yeah, you know, we get we get
a lot and wow, I'm realizing I need to
get back to a bunch of people here.
Sorry about that, everybody that hasn't.
Um, I just want like a conversation with
somebody where they're obviously trying
to pitch me. So, I think I'm probably
going to go to requests here and then
Okay, yeah, this is perfect. So, we'll
get credit boost 777. So, first of all,
both X and um Instagram actually make
use of message requests as you saw
LinkedIn also does as well. It's just
the LinkedIn message requests um are
significantly less likely to happen. And
so most of the time on X or Instagram,
you're going to be in a message request
box. So keep that in mind. This occurs
just because your profiles aren't really
warm. You don't have pre-exist
connections with people. And so you're
going to have to fight around that.
That's the big that's the big drop. But
anyway, assuming that uh you know,
you're actually doing this. Good God, I
have a lot of tabs open now. Assuming
you're actually doing this like one at a
time. Um first thing is obviously your
profile picture, right?
Immediately after you also have the
handle which can be the full name if
they want it to but a lot of people like
credit boost 777 or man or deuce right
they don't actually use their full name
Ben Sloinsky clearly did kudos to him
for that um this right over here is I
think around 35 to 40 characters or so
maybe 30 characters or so that's 10 so
yeah this is right about 30 characters
or so before it gets truncated
say teaser which is 30 cares
And then obviously you have the the time
that it was sent to. If you click in on
this, you have the profile picture, you
have the handle, you have the handle
again. Um I think the name can actually
be different from the handle, which is
why there are two. Then you also have
the platform because some people will
send messages from like Facebook or
whatever. And just opening up a few more
of these. Notice how this is their first
name, Deuce, and this is deuce.creative.
Same thing with uh I don't know, Mike
over here, Mike MJ, but his handle's
technically Mike MJ_7. I don't think I
have any from Facebook, but keep in mind
that I think you can you can send from
that. Okay. And then finally, um, just
looking at the actual message body
itself, we see that you have that
message body, too. And, uh, from there
on out, you know, I can either accept,
delete, or block. All right. And then
finally, we have our, um, iMessage,
which is a way that a lot of people are
communicating. Slot this in for text
message as necessary. Although, note
that if you're not on iMessage, you're
not going to get a cute little blue
bubble, which is typically how people
like sending messages. Um, you know,
anybody with a lot of money typically
has an iPhone. And I don't say this cuz
I think Androids suck or whatever.
There's also some cultural differences
there, but yeah, in general, that's what
it's like. Now, I'm doing this on my
computer, which does look a little bit
different from my phone, but just for
limitations of not wanting to put my
phone up. Um, this is what it kind of
looks like. Okay, so we have the profile
picture as mentioned. Then you have the
phone number, and then obviously you
have a teaser. Now, the teaser here is
like the actual body of the message. So,
and then just taking a look at this, I
just pasted this into um Cloud Code, and
it told me it was 91 characters,
including whites space. So, you also
have the message
teaser which is around 90 characters or
so. And so, like when you get spam
messages like this, hi, hope uh you know
I'm not interrupting. Would you have
some time to talk? Like this one here,
you know, like this is the entire
message and it's all totally within the
teaser. Um, realistically, I can make
the decision on whether or not I want to
engage with this message without
actually even clicking it. So if I'm
sending some sort of like SMS campaign
or something like that, whether it's
outbound or inbound, um you know, like I
generally speaking will want to write
messages that are at least as long as
the entire thing. So I would go probably
like a time a time and a half or so as
long. And then what I would probably
want to do is I want to bury some
plausible deniability right over here.
Something that's like interesting or
engaging so that people at least feel
like they have to click the message in
order to read the rest. Anyway, aside
from that, you obviously have the phone
number, you have the uh what where it's
coming from. So this is an SMS, not an
iMessage. And then you have the the
message body itself. And then what's
really cool about this is there's just
like three or four different ways that
you could do this. You could go photos,
stickers, image playground, images,
message effects. There like a couple of
different things that iMes can do to
each other that um others can't. Okay,
so I go through this just because I want
you guys to know there are a lot more
levers to pull than you probably think.
You know, look, I don't think most
people realize that the name of the
sender could make an impact. I don't
think they realize that like the
LinkedIn premium badge was something you
could play around with, the X tag or
handle, the join date, the body. Um, I
do this a lot for Upwork within Maker
School. Like people don't realize, but
basically there's like 30 different
sections that you can add information
and add value. And one of the simplest
ways to make money on that platform is
just add information to literally
everything. Um, what I'm going to do
next is I'm just going to provide some
really highle advice for each one of
these. Obviously for cold emails, it was
any unused space in your subject line
and teaser gets filled with metadata. So
aim for 150 characters. For LinkedIn,
it's have a professional corporate
profile picture and get premium
plus some certifications to add more
to the top of your message body and also
decrease the probability of landing in
the other mailbox. On Axe, the whole
game is making it out of requests. Aside
from that, write casually in the same
tov that most other X users use.
Similarly on Instagram, the whole game
is going to be making it out of message
requests. Aside from that, writing
casually the same TV that most other ex
users use. Then on iMessage, fill out
the entire teaser. Do not Oh, and then
insert something provocative right near
the end to ensure a click. Although to
be honest, you could probably do that
same highle piece of advice everywhere.
So, I'm just going to do that.
All right. Now that we're done with
specific platforms, why don't we chat a
little bit about subject lines,
follow-ups, and then iterating
specifically like what makes a good
subject line? Because I think there's a
lot of misunderstanding around good
subjects. So, what I'm going to do is
I'll just show you some examples of bad
subjects.
And what I'm going to do is actually
literally go through my email inbox and
then just find a few. and then I'll be
able to tell you why. So, what are some
bad subjects? This whole thing is
basically a graveyard of bad subject
lines, to be honest. Um, this is
actually a good one, believe it or not.
Uh, and I think the person's not a spam
bot, so great great work here. But stuff
like interested in AI driven performance
optimization. I mean, that is weak, man.
Super weak. So, I'm going to add that to
my list.
Video editor, weak as hell. I mean,
there's nothing here that's custom.
There's nothing here that begs the
question. Stuff that's too long, like
Nikki scaled to 72K a month with
automation. Here's the next level. O,
that's rough. Definitely don't want
that. And then stuff that's like
literally no subject is definitely not
necessary and it's not something that
you want. Um, always make sure to add
some sort of subject to your email.
Okay, so I'm going to talk about why in
a second, but let's now chat about good
subjects. What are some great subject
lines that I've received? So tangential
mentions of things that I would only
know if um you know I watched your
content is great. Your cloud code course
and a formatting thought, hey, your
cloud code course is great, but every
time I paste AI text in a Gmail, this is
like the worst part of it. It's the
teaser, but the subject itself is pretty
great. This 2026 capital is pretty good.
Um this one here from Marco is great.
Why? because I mean it's there's some
minor grammatical mistakes here and it
looks poorly formatted enough to make me
think it's human but it's also quite
endearing and um in general people like
that sort of thing. This one from Ben
Crrame is interesting. He's reaching out
to me to try and sell me cold email.com
1 mil cash is structured up to 12
months. Um what's really neat about this
is notice how his subject's really
short. That means we get the teaser
fully laid out. Um so that that's pretty
neat. Uh Nick plus YouTube is a pretty
cool one. one of your videos said would
have been a really good one if they
didn't misspell it. Uh, left clicks
blind spot. That would have been good.
Um, I think realistically if you just
change this that's actually a really
good subject line. It was just like
Nick's blind spot. That would crush. Um,
okay. So, what makes a good subject line
versus a bad subject line? Well,
basically the entire point of the
subject line, and I just want you guys
to drill this in your head right now, is
something called plausible deniability.
So, when you send a subject, and this
also kind of goes for teasers,
the idea is not to tell them everything
about your email up front because if you
did, they wouldn't even need to click on
your email to see the rest. The whole
idea is you just want to play a little
game with them and be clever. You want
to give them enough information to
peique their curiosity, but not enough
that you can answer the question and
fully satisfy their need without them
giving the email a whole click. And so
one of the simplest and lows hanging
fruit in like a good email campaign is
just not writing um a subject and a
teaser that answers the question uh you
know who the hell is this and why should
I care. Instead what you want is you
want to have your personalization be in
the subject line and then in the teaser.
And then in order for the person to
answer the next logical question aside
from you know obviously the first answer
is is this spam? Is this not spam?
That's how the fourstep framework works.
Um the second question they're going to
ask is okay so who is this and why do I
give a [__] Well, they need to actually
click the email in order to answer that.
And so the whole game is plausible
deniability. You actually want to play
around with them and you want them to
think maybe you aren't even a c a
prospect. Maybe you aren't even somebody
trying to sell them at all. Maybe you're
not even a salesperson. Maybe you're
like their long-lost cousin. Maybe
you're somebody they went to school
with. Maybe you're somebody that wants
to give them money. You want to buy
their business. Maybe you're somebody
that wants to invite them to a podcast.
You know, maybe you're somebody that
like has been watching their stuff and
just has a friendly comment. Maybe
you're somebody who your content or your
posts or something about you has
resonated so much with them that it
changed their life. Like the whole idea
is not to sell in the subject line. You
do not sell in the subject line. What
you do is you just get plausible
deniability to buy the click. So subject
lines, they do not sell. And if you find
yourself selling at all in the subject
line, you're doing something wrong. So
the reason why these are bad subjects is
because it just gives away the whole
thing, right? So, a quick idea on your
daily strategy content. Um, I mean, like
this would need to be very hypersp
specific in order for daily strategy
content to make any sense whatsoever.
Quick collab, question mark. This is
better because collaboration is sort of
like an open term. But, um, the fact
that there's zero personalization thrown
in here and it just it just says quick
collab, quick this, quick that.
Literally, the word quick here is the
problem. You know, if I'm reaching out
to somebody and I poured my heart and
soul into something, like, I'm not going
to say quick. I'm just going to sit down
and tell you what the hell it is. And
that's what we're trying to pattern
match for, right? Trying to pattern
match for the appearance of 1:1
personalized coms. Can you double this
week? I don't know what the hell that
means. Probably not. Interested in
AIdriven performance optimization. This
is actually an okay one, although I have
bundled this in bad. And the reason why
is because they just like AI is very
clearly an acronym and anybody in the
industry does not say AI. They they all
say AI. So, if you're going to like play
around with some sort of like, you know,
hook like interested in adri performance
optimization and then try and pretend to
me that like you're a customer or
somebody they might want to buy, but
then you you don't actually spell the
the thing right. I'm just not going to
take you seriously. Video editor. Uh,
this doesn't work because I've just
received a billion of these so far. And
then it's very clear that you're
pitching me for video editing services.
Nick, you scaled a 72K month with
automation. Here's the next level. This
doesn't work. Why? Because it's just
selling me blatantly. No subject. I mean
like this can work but in general no
subject is correlated with like spam
emails and scams. So um you know I
wouldn't have no subject basically ever.
I always have a subject line of some
kind. The idea is you want to make it
seem like it was a pretty low loweffort
and or something that's
hyperpersonalized. So your claude co
your claude code course and a formatting
thought. This is like lowercase which
implies to me that this is like a real
person, right? Even if it's not. And
then you know it's a formatting thought.
This person's giving me some
information. They're also asking me
about my claude course. probably
something that they would only know if
they'd actually gone through and watched
it. Um 2026 capital. This could mean a
million things. This could mean somebody
like investing in my business, which is
just so naturally interesting. Want to
buy you, right? Like that's cool. Uh of
course I'm going to give that a click
because who knows, maybe they're going
to give me an offer so good I can't
refuse. Been with you from the start. I
really like this one because nobody
would write start that way. So kudos to
you, Marco, for that. I clicked the hell
out of that. Nick's blind spot, as
mentioned a moment ago, um is pretty
interesting because assuming your teaser
doesn't just give away the whole potato.
That's not a That's not an idiom at all.
But assuming it doesn't just give it all
away, then uh you know, I'm gonna want
to click it to see what the hell is my
blind spot. Generally, subject lines
that come from like a a fear of loss
work really well. So, you know,
something all lowercase, it's like,
"You're wasting 2,300
per month."
That says, "Nick, you're wasting 2,300
per month." Uh, that would be like a
pretty cool subject line. Why? Because
so long as the teaser doesn't give it
all away, I'm going to read, you know,
the lower case. I'll think, okay, this
probably person probably wrote my uh
name themselves cuz they screwed it up.
2,300 per month, that's a fair amount of
money. Wasting, I hate wasting stuff.
You know, I'm not in like a scarcity
mindset, but like I don't want to waste.
Most human beings respond much better to
uh you know, any sort of accusation of
loss than they do uh potential upside.
And so that's a good thing that you can
take advantage of.
Okay. So, the greatest subjects on
planet Earth tend to be really simple.
They tend to literally be stuff like,
you know, like literally just Nick, um,
you know,
Nick Q. Um, Nick, are you taking
coaching clients?
Um, Nick, are you hiring? Uh, you know,
Nick, you looked sad in your last vid.
You know, stuff that's like clearly
like, okay, what the hell's going on?
Who is this? Are they a friend of mine?
Are they a family member? Are they a
longtime fan? Why do I look sad? Am I
hiring? Am I taking coaching clients? He
wants he wants me to work with him for a
coaching client. Interesting. I'm
wasting $2,300 per month. And then it's
usually going to involve some sort of
personalization in either the the
subject or the teaser itself. So like
one of the two is going to have to have
a name or something like that. And then,
you know, if they don't have names too,
you could still use cold reading and
stuff like that to get around it. But in
general, that the recommendation is to
use some sort of name. Okay, so that is
subject lines. Let's chat a little bit
more about follow-ups now. So I feel
like people misunderstand the way that
follow-ups work. Um, you know, I I have
I have people out here that send like 20
follow-ups a freaking day, and it's just
it's too much. So, whatever platform
you're on, whatever the heck you're
doing, uh, generally speaking, I
actually only send, you know, let's just
pretend they're emails, not SMS's, I'll
send like two emails, okay? Initially,
I'll always just send some initial email
and then I'll send some little
follow-up. And the follow-ups don't have
to be super crazy complicated. You know,
I feel like a lot of people try and make
them out to be these really, really,
really big scary things, right? They're
like, "Oh my god, I have to send case
studies and I have to make this super
personalized and I have to reference
their their their third cousin twice
removed and you know, if I don't do
that, then the follow-up's just not
going to work." And the reality is like
your follow-ups are going to work fine.
You can literally just say like, "Hey,
X, checking in on Y. TLDDR,
if this is the first time you're seeing
this,
you know, email body, you know,
obviously make it different. Thanks,
Nick." But, um, just having one
follow-up is going to put you ahead of
like 99.9% of people that don't do any
follow-ups whatsoever. And then the
reason why I do this, okay, and you're
probably wondering like, okay, so I'm
sorry, you don't send three, four, five.
Uh, and I I do. It's just the reason why
I do this initially is because I just
don't know how good my email is. The
whole idea of sending outbound is you
want to minimize the proportion of
people that mark you as spam.
This differs from one platform to the
next. On email, it is literally the
spam/block buttons. On LinkedIn, it
might be the delete or archive buttons.
On Instagram X, it might be the
decline of buttons, etc. ETC. And
basically what happens is when you have
multiple um emails in a sequence and
you're not sure that it's a good
sequence to begin with, you're risking
the spam/block a lot more because you'll
annoy the hell out of people. So what
you want to do instead is you want to
instead start with a smaller sequence of
two. Then you want to improve this and
track reply rates, open rates, whatever
you can depending on the specific metric
of u outbound that you're doing. When
you found a good fit,
aka when your campaign starts
overperforming, then you can add an
additional step and it'll continue
lifting your performance over time while
minimizing your uh what I'm just going
to call, you know, block risk
and maximizing the health of your
assets, you know, which might be like
mailboxes,
phone numbers, Instagram profiles,
LinkedIn profiles, X profile, calls etc.
Okay, so I mean like hopefully that's
clearer, but the only situation in which
I'd add an additional email like a third
email would be let's say my reply rates
are 2% on this um whole campaign here.
You know, I I I wouldn't do it. But if I
found some really good like breakout
campaign and it works super well and
it's actually like 4.8% just with two
emails, like yeah, I'm going to add a
third one. And do you know what'll
happen if I add email three here? That
4.8% is going to elevate. That 4.8% 8%
is going to become like a 6.1% just
because you know with more emails
there's higher probability that people
are actually going to respond to you
obviously because they get more more
pings and touch points and I'm going to
do this while also minimizing the
probability of me getting uh some issue.
Same thing there. You know if I had a
fourth email then what's realistically
happening is I'm feeding this in and my
6.1% might become like a 6.8%. I was
going to do 6.9 and or 6.7 but I didn't
want little kiddos to go crazy. And you
can just continue working that up but
you have to hit some sort of like
minimum bar. Okay. And you know in
general um just send simple pings
just send simple
human follow-ups like real humans don't
go
Peter while analyzing leftclick I
noticed
you were spending XYZ
on platforms you didn't have to be our
recent case study
you know AAA corp saved over $10,000 by
doing whatever. Like, real human beings
don't talk like this. And again, the
whole idea is you want to seem like a
real human being. A real human being
would just be like, "Hey, Pete, are you
cool, man? Like, get back to me. Let me
know how this is." Or like, "Hey, Pete,
just checking in on X, Y, and Z. Let me
know if you have any questions or
whatever. Hey, Pete. Um, let me know if
this got lost in your mailbox." Right?
The reality is, if you spent a bunch of
time and energy to write the first
email, that's the sort of follow-ups
that you would actually be doing. You
would not be doing like newsletter style
follow-ups like this. you just be doing
like, "Hey, man, quick ping. Hey, dude.
Can you help me out with whatever?"
"Hey, whatever." And um it's unfortunate
because like a lot of people screw that
up, man. And a lot of people like they
they don't realize how easy it is to do
follow-ups. Just like send them a ping,
reformulate the initial chunk of your
email, um and use a different subject
line for the most part because that
allows you to test multiple different
subjects over and over and over and over
again. Okay. And finally, let's chat
about this principle of iterating before
I exit out of number seven and get on to
number eight. So, what do I mean by
iterating? To be clear, um, your cold
emails or cold outbound campaigns
rarely rock right away. They usually
suck. What more or less always happens
anytime you build a campaign or at least
anytime I build a campaign, if you found
a way to eliminate this, then please let
me know is, you know, if this is um time
and then this is whatever metric I'm
interested in, which is going to be in
my case reply rate. Okay, usually what
happens is you start pretty low. Okay.
And let's just make this something a
little different. You start pretty low.
You know, if this is like time step
zero, you you just send it out. This is
time step one. This is two. This is
three. Maybe this is days or something
like that. This is basically what's
happening over the course of a of a full
week. You start out at, you know, 2.5%.
And you think, okay, this is pretty mid.
So, you start making some changes. You
change your copy up. And then all of a
sudden, this does pretty well. So, now
you're at a 3.2%. And you're like, okay,
sweet. I'm liking this. Um, I wonder
what would happen if I change a copy
again, but then you screw it up and then
you go back down to, I don't know,
somewhere around like 3%. And then
you're like, okay, okay, maybe, you
know, I'll do another change, then you
go up to uh 4%.
And so in this way, you just
continuously iterate and on some
occasions, things will go worse, and on
some occasions, things will go good
until eventually what you do is you
reach like this sort of like plateau
where things just like they they they
don't really get any better. And this is
sort of like your true reply rate for
whatever the campaign is. And the only
way to get here is obviously you need a
lot of data, right? Because I mean I
don't know every leg here is going to be
somewhere between like 500 to 1k emails
in my case, but in your case maybe text
messages or or or phone calls or
whatever. Um and so typically what that
means is there's some highle rules that
you can get as a result of just thinking
about this stuff broadly. Um the first
is you know if I just try and make it
really clear
always iterate you know always have
multiple variants going simultaneously
if you don't you're basically always
leaving some money on the table and uh
as we know with the outreach you do not
want to be leaving any money on the
table here. The margins can be thin
enough as is if you're not good. So no
matter what always be sending like more
than one uh variant. This is going to
differ depending on what platform you're
using. Instantly has built-in support
for that. Smartly has built-in support
for I think hey reach now has built-in
support for LinkedIn outbound. There's
some X platforms out there that have
built in support for X outbound. Not all
these will be above uh terms of service
uh restrictions and stuff like that. So
be careful. But um yeah, no matter what,
always iterate. Stick to a schedule. If
you don't, you'll forget. What I mean by
this is one of the simplest follow-up
sorry iteration cadences that I've ever
stuck with is I just iterate every
Sunday. Sunday is like the one day of
the week that you know for most of my
campaigns I will not send any coms and
what that means is every week I just
know and I've been doing this for years
where I'm just like okay it's Sunday
that means it's like iteration day and
for like 20 or 30 minutes not a very
long time at all you know I know some
people keep their Sunday sacred but for
20 or 30 minutes I'll just sit down and
I'll make some minor adjustments to my
emails I I'll just say uh I don't know
like change the subject line or do this
or do that and I since I do it on
Sundays every Sunday it's just like so
built into my schedule that I actually
get 100% of those iteration cycles. Like
per year I probably get like 45 to 50
iteration cycles that nobody else gets
because the way that most people iterate
is they'll be like I got to iterate and
then they'll try iterating a ton like
once every day for like the first week
and then they'll never iterate again.
The idea is you want it to iterate
consistently over time, make changes,
log those changes somewhere and then
just be able to look at that sort of
like a researcher doing their
experiments. And now there are cool
automated ways of doing this. So, you
guys saw my recent auto research video
with cloud code. You can actually like
literally have AI design the research
for you, make the iterations, and stick
to that schedule, but you know, that'll
be a while before it gets widespread
enough or I think accurate enough to
like really make a big dent. For now,
just stick to a schedule. So, I mean, in
your case, the schedule is going to
depend on the volume. In general, okay,
a good rule is 500 to a,000 per variant.
What I mean is if you have two campaigns
running simultaneously, one is sending
X, the other is sending Y, you know,
have each of those send somewhere
between 500 to a,000, look at the reply
rates and then make a decision based off
of which one has a higher reply rate. If
you've only sent 50 or 100, the
probability that your decision will be
statistically significant enough to have
actually moved in the direction of like
success is so low as to be laughable.
Unfortunately, a lot of people, you
know, they they don't realize just how
much volume is required here. to listen
100 emails get zero replies or one of
their campaigns gets one and they're
like, "Oh my god, you know, I just
iterated so that um you know, I I I I
selected the campaign that has one reply
and I left the one that has zero replies
in the dirt." And it's like, it could be
that the one that got zero replies is
actually way better. You just you don't
have enough stats to really know.
Talking to 100 people is not enough. You
need to talk to 500 to a,000. And
really, there are like whole statistical
formulas for this, but I don't really
like mucking around in the weeds. In my
case, I'm always like, you know, more
volume solves the issues of like better
strategy and statistics. So for me, I'm
just like 500 to,000 sounds good. In
general, I also suggest pick a TAM with
a lot of leads. What I mean by this is
TAM stands for total addressable market.
And that just corresponds to basically
what what it is that you're targeting.
So for instance, if I'm targeting um I
don't know like holistic
nutritionists in Texas or something, I'm
probably only going to have like a
couple hundo if that. So I'm not even
going to be able to do like one good
test, right? But if I'm targeting like I
don't know digital agencies in the
United States which is obviously a lot
broader and that has some downsides as
well. You know this might be 100,000 and
it's like okay cool. So 100,000 might
literally mean like I'll have somewhere
between 100 to 200 tests. I mean imagine
if this is the improvement that you
could make with like seven tests.
Imagine you could do with like 100 to
200 tests, right? You could get
something basically to the moon assuming
it doesn't plateau. Again the last one
is make big changes early and small
changes late. What I mean by that is at
the very beginning of your cold email or
SMS or cold calling campaign or
whatever, you know the least about what
works because you have the least amount
of data. And so what that means is your
primary task is to explore the search
space is to search as quickly and
effectively as possible over a wide
range of, you know, potential approaches
and then just quickly narrow out all the
ones that don't work because most of
them won't work. You can't do that just
by making one tiny little change to your
sequence every week. What you have to do
is if you're just starting out, your
first week sending cold email or making
cold calls, have like two fundamentally
different scripts or two fundamentally
different sequences. Your first is like,
you know, 30 characters. And it's like,
well, not actually 30 characters, maybe
like 30 to 50 words. It's like, you
know, hey Pete, love what you're doing,
man. If I could uh connect you with
three to five decision makers per week
and land you an additional 10K a month
and then collect, you know, between a 10
to 15% commission, would you be open to
that? have a lot of people in XYZ space
and uh you know looking for partners
right now. Just give me a shout and we
can have a quick call about it. Thanks.
And your other one is like Peter, it's
Sally. I haven't seen your profile in
years, but I remember coming across it
on the eve of 2014 when I was walking my
dog Shire to whatever, right? Like what
I'm trying to say is make them very
different initially and then you'll very
quickly figure out which one is better.
And once you make it a quick
determination as to which one's better,
the super short, the super long, the
super formal, the super informal, the
super in-depth personalized, the super
not in-depth personalized, you can very
quickly just like cut out half of all of
the possibilities that won't work and
then move to like the half that that
that do. And so like I typically will
test two fundamentally different emails
that don't look anything alike and then
I'll just see which one performs the
best. And then the next uh test is I'll
make them like different but not so
different like the first one that
they're like fundamentally different or
fundamentally opposed. I'll make them
kind of like, you know, the first change
was like a 3x difference, the second
one's like a 2x difference, the third
one's like a 1x difference, the fourth
one's like a 0.5x and so on and so on
and so forth. And so what I mean is like
if this graph instead is the size of the
difference over time, basically you want
to like significantly decrease the size
of the difference over time so that uh
you know the two emails end up being
much much more similar as you go on. And
then eventually you will have like
narrowed in on like a really high
performer. Once you've narrowed in a
really high performer, all you have to
do is just change a few words here or
there. Change the subject line a bit.
change like one line from X to Y, you
know, change how you're doing the
personalizations and that sort of stuff.
And that takes me to probably one of my
favorite subjects given how I've just
been producing a lot of content
surrounding AI recently, which is how to
use AI in copywriting. Now, what I what
I think a lot of people are probably
going to assume that I'm going to say
here is that you should use AI to, you
know, write your campaigns. They think
I'm going to show them a big long script
or prompt or a claude code skill that
effectively shows you how to go from no
campaign written to a full campaign in
front of you. They probably think that
because you know colloquially I'm I'm an
a guy AI guy now. But to be honest, I
rarely if at all use AI in my
copyrightiting these days. There was a
period about a year and a half ago where
I was experimenting with using AI
personalization quite a bit. And I found
just generally speaking, personalization
does not replace like a good quality
campaign. AI is also not yet at the
ability where it can meaningfully craft
like very persuasive copy. And despite
the fact that, you know, things are
still progressing pretty quick, I do not
think it's at the point where you should
be using it for your copy. I think there
are a couple of cool toy projects you
could build with it like using AI to
like assist you in minor iterations but
you should not just give entirely your
copy over to a model and just assume
that it'll be better than human beings.
The reason why is because I consider the
skill required to get to a reasonable
level of competence with uh just like
you know this course and then a little
bit of elbow grease is actually pretty
low. So another famous graph coming at
you. You know if this is the amount of
time it takes for you to learn something
and this is your skill and we're
specifically talking about
copyrightiting. I think copyrightiting
is very much like this
meaning like the first I don't know
let's just say this is 2 weeks and this
is like one month. I think you will
actually literally get like 70 to 80%
let's just call it 75% of the total
available skill in this with a very
small period of time um actually
invested in working and so the reason
why I think this is so important is
because despite the fact that you know
right over here this looks like it's
only 25% the gap between you know a
novice and then you know sorry somebody
that's been doing this for like one year
this is kind of logarithmic the point
I'm trying to make is it takes very
short amount of time to get to
reasonable level quality and then it
takes a very long amount of time to take
that like reasonable level quality and
make it like incredible quality. So, you
know, I'm I'm up here in so far that
I've spent many years doing this stuff.
Um, you know, basically been in
marketing and sales my entire career
since I graduated uh university and well
before then if I'm being honest and so
I've basically been doing some form of
outbound for about a decade now. And I'm
not even, you know, I'm probably like
90th percentile, 95th percentile.
Certainly qualified enough to teach a
course on it, but not necessarily the
best copyriter in the world. you'd have
to look at the uh Oglev's and and stuff
like that um you know for real deep
understanding of copyrighting. But I
guess what I'm trying to say is because
the there's this gap of like good and
great and the gap just takes so much
additional skill to learn like AI will
happily write copy over here because AI
can basically do anything the human
beings can do now with about 2 weeks of
experience but it'll really really
struggle with writing copy up here. And
so that 25% is is massive and there's
big diminishing returns on it. And uh
unfortunately in the market nowadays
like there's a there's almost like a
skill floor where like I don't know
imagine you're in like the Titanic or
something and it's uh I don't know it's
it's it's flooding with water. If you're
not like at least this good, which is
better than what AI can do right now,
nobody's even opening or clicking your
freaking emails to begin with. So
basically, you need to get to this point
on your own. And then you need to write
all your emails on your own. and then
and only then would I even consider like
even spot check use of AI worthwhile.
Otherwise, it it'll just confuse the
hell out of you and it'll result in like
really poor quality um results. And uh
if you're wondering like why I'm so
convicted in my beliefs here, convicted
why I have such conviction in my
beliefs, it's because I literally run
like an AI community that does a ton of
copyrightiting. You know, it's called
Maker School. And the vast majority of
what we do on a day-to-day basis is
we're copyrightiting our Upwork
applications. We're copyrighting scripts
for our Upwork looms. We're copyrighting
actual cold emails. We're copyrighting
cold uh LinkedIn DMs. We're copyrighting
freaking everything. And we've just
consistently found across all uh metrics
across over 10,000 people that are
actively doing this for their business.
Um you know, people that use AI really
intensely in the process tend to suck.
Okay, so that's my anti-AI ludite rant.
Um now let's talk about how to actually
use AI in copywriting. Okay. So, you
should not use it to rewrite your whole
email. But what you should do if you're
planning on using AI
is use it for small
templated variables.
And what I mean by this is, you know, if
I have
um I don't know, some type of copy and
it's hey Nick and then I have let's say
an icebreaker or something like that.
Just wanted to bring your attention
to this. Your landing page right now is
costing you, I don't know, XYZ per month
and you could fix it in under 15 minutes
with a quick
tweak to your HTML, right? Whatever. And
then, you know, you have like the rest
of copy here. Okay.
um this icebreaker segment here, this is
sort of like your your your personalized
segment. The only situation that I would
use AI, okay, would be basically just to
write like a small little snippet that
looks like this. And to be honest, I
wouldn't even have it write the entire
snippet. I would just do something along
the lines of um hey Nick,
love your I don't know channel or web
property.
um big fan and has made me think a lot
about something they involved something
they're involved in.
So, what I mean by this is um you know I
would feed this into AI and I would say
hey I want you to generate based off of
all of their LinkedIn you know scraped
information or based off of like this
dossier that I've compiled in them or
based off whatever the hell I just want
you to tell me like what their most
popular web property is and then what I
want you to do is just insert it in this
sentence love your channel or web
property such that let's say you know
they're like a YouTuber what it would do
is it would say hey Nick love your
channel man. Okay. If they're mostly on
LinkedIn, it'd be like, "Hey, Nick, love
your LinkedIn post, man." You know, if
they write about AI or something like
that, I'd say, "Big fan has made me
think a lot about how AI is,
you know, changing work or something
like that, and then I'd stick that in
there." Or if they're involved in
videography, uh, you know, I'd scrape
their profiles and whatever and I'd say,
you know, setting up my studio, so
thanks. Right? Something of this nature.
And so what you use AI for is you don't
use it to write your whole email like we
saw earlier with that Grove example.
More like gross, am I right? You uh you
use it for small templated variables
that fit into a pre-established
already working template. And usually
what you want is you want to use it in
this like personalization section so you
can just get your personalization out of
the way, not have to worry about it
again. And then you can just like write
like really high quality um you know
social proof. who am I? Why do I matter?
Offer, and then CTAs down here. Okay, so
that's that's number one. That's like
probably the simplest and easiest way to
use this. And I mean, this is so small
of a pitch that like there's actually a
lot like I' I've ran probably over like
several dozen campaigns now
where I actually just have AI
only do one variable
where it's literally casual version of
company name. What do I mean by this?
Like okay, let's say my company name is
Leftclick Incorporated.
If a usual scraper goes and grabs my
date off LinkedIn or or whatever the
hell and then I'm just putting a a
native company name with with no nothing
else, what it's going to say is it's
going to say love Leftclick
Incorporated. Now, if I'm Nick and I'm
reading this email, I'm going to think,
okay, well, this guy obviously scraped
me because he put incorporated in. Like,
when you talk about your businesses to
other people, you're not like, dude,
Leftclick Incorporated's revenue is
going so high right now. Wow, Leftclick
Incorporated just hit uh 43 mil. Wow,
have you seen what happened with
LeftClick Incorporated? you know, no you
don't. You know, it's like Palunteer.
It's like Palunteer technologies, right?
You just say Palunteer. We do the same
thing with with any sort of companies,
right? And so the point that I'm trying
to make is like what this casualization
approach does is it just strips out
anything that's not like casually
usually referred to by other human
beings either within the company or that
would refer to the company naturally.
And by doing so, it just makes it seem
like a lot more real. So, you know, if
it's like the leftclick incorporated or
something, I might do this. Um, a
business I used to run with uh my friend
Um, Grinder was the Pacific Creative
Group. Okay, that's a really long name.
And actually, I think it was like the
Pacific Creative Group LLC. You imagine
if I went love the Pacific Creative
Group LLC. Do you think that would work?
Obviously not. But what if I said love
PCG?
You know, if you're at a really, really
long business name, realistically, what
people almost always do is they will
almost almost always make acronyms of
the name. And then when they refer to
that business internally, you know, it's
not the Pacific Creative Group LLC. It's
like, you know, how's PCG doing? Hey,
PCG is up 33% this year. It's like, oh,
okay, cool. If I say, hey, Nick, love
PCG. They're thinking, wait a second.
Does this person know me? Oh, this must
be one of my old business contacts or
something. Let me click on the email.
And then at least you get you guys get
the read, right? So, yeah, this is
called basically casual version of
company name. And I've called this many
things, but nowadays I call this like a
casualization layer. And I have a bunch
of cloud code skills and other like AI
tools that really quickly casualize
company names before I I I I do things.
So use it to casualize
company names, neighborhoods, schools,
or other uh rapport building approaches.
I said neighborhoods here, right? I
don't know. Let's say they live in like
Vancouver, British Columbia, right? And
so what you're doing is you're feeding,
this is where I used to live to be
clear. If you guys don't know, it's on
the west coast. Um, what I'm doing is
I'm feeding in Vancouver, British
Columbia to like sort of my my
casualization.
And then I'm saying, "Hey, I just want
you to like extract the actual area that
they live in based off their address or
something." And so what the system then
does is it outputs um, you know, East
Van or something like that.
And so, you know, instead of love
Vancouver, it's like, hey, Nick, heard
you live in East Van, right? Now, this
is significantly more casual and there's
significantly higher probability
somebody's going to look at them and be
like, "Holy [__] this person knows East
Van. This is something that you would
only know if you actually lived in East
Van." And you know what's wild is like
you don't actually need to know how to
do any of this stuff. Like AI tends to
have enough geographical knowledge to be
able to do that. specific neighborhoods
in like San Francisco, specific
neighborhoods in like some tiny little
hobvel somewhere like like wherever you
are, you can generally speaking do
something like this. And so, um, that's
how you use AI in copyrightiting. Okay,
use it for small templated variables
that fit into a pre-established already
working template. Use it to use it to
casualize company names, neighborhoods,
schools, or other rapport building
approaches. And then finally, you
obviously use it to scrape leads and
enrich info to begin with. But because
this isn't a scraping thing, this isn't
necessarily all about cold email
specifically, I'm just going to leave it
at that. If you guys want more on how to
scrape leads, enrich information and
whatnot. Um, definitely check out uh my
channel. Uh, some videos that I posted
last year talk specifically about
scraping. I also show how to like set up
high performing cold email campaigns in
just a couple of hours that actually get
responses and then lead to booked
meetings. Uh, I use a variety of
different approaches like Airscale,
LinkedIn Sales Navigator, Vein.io,
um, um, you know, like custom
directories, custom conference lists,
and so on and so forth.
Okay, next up I want to talk about some
advanced gray hat outbound techniques.
Now, gray hat techniques are those that
trade compliance. When I say compliance
here, I mean compliance both with local
laws and regulations and compliance with
terms of services of many outbound
platforms that you're probably familiar
with. That's stuff like, you know,
Gmail, stuff like Outlook, stuff like
LinkedIn, and so on and so on and so
forth. Now, in some situations, there is
no established protocol or terms of
service for them. So, in situations like
that, you got to use them at your own
risk. I mean, any one of these platforms
or any one of these tools, hell, any one
of these countries or municipalities can
change your laws at any point in time.
And so I'm just saying this to give you
guys some some fair warning. While I
believe some of what I'm about to talk
about is valuable and it's worth
knowing, both for the purposes of doing
and then maybe the purposes of avoiding
the downsides that normally come with
them, I can't explicitly recommend any
of them and and I won't. I've had a lot
of people in Maker School that have
attempted things like this and then
they've gotten their account suspended
permanently in some cases. They've
gotten warning letters and stuff like
that. So this is by no means me
encouraging you guys to but any course
on this would be incomplete if I did not
mention this. So the way that things
stand right now there are three main
gray hat techniques where you are uh you
know doing things that are that are
either expressly against the toss or not
explicitly defined. The first is buying
social media accounts or LinkedIn,
Instagram X, Tik Tok, you know whatever
email uh whatever account it is plus
email. So, I'm not going to name any
particular vendors, but there are a
bunch of places out there that you can
go and usually pretty easily buy
pre-warmed social media accounts. That's
pre-warmed LinkedIn accounts, for
instance, accounts that somebody
purchased like years ago, it's kept on
the back burner, maybe with some sort of
activity, and then because they've acred
like a lot of organic usage, LinkedIn is
less likely to ban the person that's
using that account or they're less
likely to raise issues. Alternatively,
maybe they have higher usage limits or
higher connect outbound limits as a
result, which is something that a lot of
people want. You know, LinkedIn's uh,
you know, outbound limits can be
somewhere between 100 to 200 connects
per week, higher if you're on premium,
and even higher if you have like organic
warmed up accounts for a while. Same
thing with Instagram, same thing with X,
and then same thing with email accounts.
Now, these are actually kind of an
interesting situation because the market
has gone behind these to a large degree
and uh they've sort of changed them.
It's not like you're purchasing like
accounts necessarily, but they they call
them pre-warmed mailboxes
and like if you jump on any major
platform today like Instantly, um,
Smartle or whatever. I don't actually
know if Smartle has pre-warmed
mailboxes. I'll have to double check.
You know, yeah, it looks like they do
have pre-warm mailboxes as well. Uh,
what you can do is you actually just go
and you can buy mailboxes that somebody
else has set up with like a first name,
a last name, and a domain name. And
these are first names, last names, and
domain names that may not exist. So what
you're doing when you buy these
mailboxes, you're basically buying like
a fake person. And so as a result of
buying the fake person, obviously
there's a fair amount of like scrutiny
that you will undergo, you know, if you
show up to a call and you're they're
like, "Hey, who the hell's Stacy at
123click.com? Why are you Nick at
leftclick?" You know, you're going to
have to explain that away either
explicitly as in like, "Hey, you know,
this is a this is an outbound strategy.
We purchase pre-warm mailboxes to
eliminate the 21-day wait time." Um or
through some other means where I don't
know, you're you're a little more
deceptive. you pass it off as a
secretary or something like that. So, I
say this not because I'm going to
explicitly condone or recommend against
any of these things, but this is the
game right now. This is what people are
doing. If there's a new need for
mailboxes on mass, you know, people will
typically go buy pre-warmed. They'll buy
50 to 100 at a time, then they'll send a
Stacy, Samantha, Nicholas, whatever the
hell. Um, and then later on they'll just
rectify that as, oh, you know, this is
my secretary or something like that,
even though that person doesn't
explicitly exist. That's what people are
referring to when they say some
something like pre-warmed. A big thing
that uh some kind of sneaky sales
companies do for LinkedIn profiles
particularly just because they're so
valuable. And then the average daily
outbound connects that you can send are
so few. Like you have to ask you have to
add connect requests. If you don't add
somebody and make a connection with them
on LinkedIn, you can't send them like a
full DM. So a thing a lot of people are
doing is they'll get um like sales or
business development positions in their
company. They'll usually hire people
from like much lower cost of living
nations. So I don't know usually some
place in like Indonesia or maybe I don't
know they'll hire like Bangladeshi
freelancers or something like that.
They'll be a western company. So they'll
get to arbitrage obviously like the
labor productivity and then the average
earnings to like the you know average
lifestyle expenses in in in one of those
um uh countries let's say in like the
the east. And then what they'll do is
they'll say hey as part of working at my
company um you know we get to use your
LinkedIn account. And so then what
they'll do is they'll treat it almost as
if they're buying a LinkedIn account,
but really what they're doing is they're
like renting it from the person and then
the person is expected to keep on giving
the LinkedIn account to the bosses or to
whoever the the person orchestrating the
outreach is with some sort of threat
like you know you're going to lose your
job or whatever. And so I mean I I
definitely don't do that. I think that's
really slimy. But um you know a lot of
people are and I've seen this kind of
crop up especially as cold email in
particular has gotten harder and people
have shifted more to um you know uh
outbound through LinkedIn and outbound
through other social media platforms.
Okay, so that's sort of number one. Um
number two is they'll use power dialers.
This is more like cold calling which is
a little bit different from what most
people here are probably used to when I
say outbound copyrightiting but like
copywriting a script is a thing a lot of
people do. So if you consider yourself
as like part of the umbrella of cold
calling um you know a lot of people use
power dialers and power dialers you know
they're not like explicitly allowed
against I would say but basically to
make sure if you don't know what a power
dialer is like in an average cold call
campaign if you spend 100 minutes
calling you're not spending 100 minutes
talking to people that matter what
you're really doing is you're spending
20 minutes connecting okay so that's uh
where you're literally going beep beep
beep right you're connecting to a
person. You're spending 20 minutes
dialing,
right? So, you're literally punching
into the phone. You're spending 20
minutes with some sort of like
gatekeeper, which isn't the person
you're actually looking for. Spending 20
minutes doing some sort of voicemail
drop. And then finally, you're spend the
last 20 minutes actually talking to a
decision maker, which is what you want.
Um, so you know, like if you think about
it, a whole 100 minute calling, how many
are we actually doing what we want here?
Like 20 minutes. So, it's like 20%
utilization. And that's one of the
reasons why I don't really recommend
cold calling unless you use something
like a power dollar. What a power dollar
does is it basically just eliminates the
connecting time and then the dialing
time and then in some cases the
voicemail time as well. So that you you
know you don't actually spend 100
minutes doing this. You spend 40 minutes
calling and then of your 40 minutes 20
minutes are on the phone with the
gatekeeper, 20 minutes are on the phone
with the decision maker. Obviously that
is much more efficient. So much so that
like you know it's about 2.5x. Um also a
lot of people use power dollars for
inbound. The issue with power dollars
and there are a couple is the way that
they work basically is in order to
eliminate the call time. What they do is
if you have like I don't know three
numbers let's just say this is a number
1 2 3 there's another one 456 and
there's another one 7 89 whatever 1 2 3
1 2 3 1 2 3 7 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 7 8 9 7
8 9 7 89 you know normally what the
dollar would do is it would call you
know you'd call 1 2 3 and so you'd have
like a dial time and then you'd also
have a connect time right because you
you have to dial it in and then you have
to connect with it so you have to
undergo this dial time and maybe this is
like 30 seconds in total. Then you're
done with the call and you have to do
the same thing for this. There's another
30 seconds. You have to do another call.
It's another 30 seconds. And maybe a
bunch of these people don't even pick
up. So what um power dollars do is they
just like parallelize this. So what you
do is you actually call 1 2 3 at the
same time you call 456 at the same time
you call 789. Whatever these fake
numbers are, the idea is not all of them
are going to pick up simultaneously. You
know, this fella might not even pick up
his phone. So that's taken care of.
Maybe this one picks up, but this one
picks a little up a little bit later.
And so what happens is you actually end
up connecting with 456. You can have a
brief conversation with them. They say,
"Sorry, you know, I'm not looking for
anybody right now." And then like when
this person picks up, you're also on the
phone with this person. What that means
is you've actually done two times as
efficient as um just calling you know a
person sequentially essentially. Now the
issue is um one there's a limit on how
many people you can dial simultaneously.
And then two, um, a lot of these
platforms and stuff like that,
especially like the older school ones
that didn't really have these
regulations, they do these things called
automatic voicemail drops where you can,
uh, voicemail people without actually
having to like sit there and record the
message. And so what it does is you
pre-record a message and then you just
like drop it to like 50,000 phone
numbers and then boom, you know, 50,000
people get a little notification, hey,
you got a voicemail. And it's like, wait
a second, you didn't even make the call.
And so there's a bunch of regulations
against this essentially. And, you know,
I thought I'd just point that out to you
guys, especially for outbound calling.
Okay. Okay. And then the third and uh
one that I think is probably the
stickiest like leg legality wise I I
probably would not do this is sending
just pure cold SMS cold WhatsApp or
using a third party API that allows you
to use one of these two. Um and to
emulate colors on messaging platforms.
What do I mean by colors? Remember
earlier we talked about iMessage?
iMessage is like iPhone communication,
right? When you send a message from one
iPhone to another, you know, it doesn't
appear as like the usual SMS thing. It's
a little blue message box and it has
some advanced features and it usually
sends via some sort of Wi-Fi or
connection and uh because of this you
know people tend to trust like blue
messages more and so there are a bunch
of platforms out there that like emulate
actual sending behavior from iPhone to
iPhone even if you're sending a campaign
let's say just through your through your
web browser or through an interface. So
in this way you get to emulate you know
sending but then the color is blue and
then the person on the other end of the
line significantly more likely to
respond to you. Same thing with cold
SMS. There's a lot of platforms out
there that allow you to send um
basically do what Instantly does for
email, but then for cold SMS. Uh some
people out there are doing the same
thing for WhatsApp right now. They're
doing the same thing for a bunch of
other like these messaging sort of apps,
Telegram, Viber, uh and so on and so on.
And I want you guys to know that like
the cold outbound messaging is extremely
regulated and like that is like very
very no. But uh these platforms sort of
skirt it by distributing a big volume
across like a bunch of numbers usually
in parallel without like really you know
a person at the like actually tracking
the stuff ever being none the wiser.
Okay, so these are like the advanced
grey hat outbound techniques. As
mentioned, I'm not going to recommend
that you absolutely do any of these. I'm
also not going to like sit here and
moralize you. A lot of people are doing
stuff like this. It's probably like
steroids in bodybuilding. You know,
people probably don't want to do it, but
then all of their competitors are doing
and they're like, "Oh [__] you know, I
feel like I probably have to." Um, but
that in a nutshell is it. Use whatever
you want according to your own level of
risk tolerance and then just understand
that I'm not at all encouraging this.
And that takes us to the end of the
course. Thank you guys very much for
making it this far. Had a blast running
through everything to do with cold
outbound. And I hope you guys learned as
much as I did in the both the
preparation and then the execution of
the last probably like 4 and 1/2 hours
or so. If you guys like this sort of
thing, uh, something like 70% of viewers
don't subscribe. No idea why, but that's
what the YouTube algo says. So, if
you're in that 70%, do me a solid and
leave a subscription. I'd also love it
if you could leave me a comment just
telling me what else you'd like to see
me record. I tend to create a lot of
content based off of explicit requests
from people just like you. It's how I
listen to my audience. And aside from
that, have a lovely rest of the day and
I'll catch all y'all in the next one.
See you.